3D Scene Graph: A structure for uniﬁed semantics, 3D space, and camera
Iro Armeni1
Zhi-Yang He1
JunYoung Gwak1
Amir R. Zamir1,2
Martin Fischer1
Jitendra Malik2
Silvio Savarese1
1 Stanford University
2 University of California, Berkeley
http://3dscenegraph.stanford.edu
Abstract
A comprehensive semantic understanding of a scene is
important for many applications - but in what space should
diverse semantic information (e.g., objects, scene cate-
gories, material types, 3D shapes, etc.) be grounded and
what should be its structure? Aspiring to have one uniﬁed
structure that hosts diverse types of semantics, we follow
the Scene Graph paradigm in 3D, generating a 3D Scene
Graph. Given a 3D mesh and registered panoramic images,
we construct a graph that spans the entire building and in-
cludes semantics on objects (e.g., class, material, shape and
other attributes), rooms (e.g., function, illumination type,
etc.) and cameras (e.g., location, etc.), as well as the rela-
tionships among these entities.
However, this process is prohibitively labor heavy if done
manually.
To alleviate this we devise a semi-automatic
framework that employs existing detection methods and en-
hances them using two main constraints: I. framing of
query images sampled on panoramas to maximize the per-
formance of 2D detectors, and II. multi-view consistency
enforcement across 2D detections that originate in different
camera locations.
1. Introduction
Where should semantic information be grounded and
what structure should it have to be most useful and invari-
ant? This is a fundamental question for a content that preoc-
cupies a number of domains, such as Computer Vision and
Robotics. There is a clear number of components in play:
geometry of the objects and space, categories of the entities
therein, and the viewpoint from which the scene is being
observed (i.e. the camera pose).
On the space where this information can be grounded,
the most commonly employed choice is images.
How-
ever, the use of images for this purpose is not ideal since
it presents a variety of weaknesses, such as pixels being
Objects
Cameras
Rooms
Building
chair
dining table
bench
clock
book
toilet
refrigerator
microwave
potted plant
couch
oven
vase
sink
bowl
bed
tv
camera
bathroom
hallway
dining room
bedroom
living room
residential building
(0.8, 0.3, - 0.1)
0.85
FOV: 75
modality: RGB
pose: (3.8, 4.2, 7.2, 0, -10, 55)
resolution: 1024x1024
class: living room
shape: prism rectangular
size: (6.5, 4.9, 3.5)
illumination: [18 ceiling lights,
                           3 spotlights, 
                          11 windows, 
                          2 lamps]
floor number: 3
function: residential
shape: prism rectangular
area: 13.8m2
obj1: occluding
obj2:occluded
obj1
obj2
obj1
obj2
obj2
obj1
class: bed
color: blue, brown 
material: wood, fabric
area: 2.2 m2
shape: prism rectangular
action affordance: sit on, lay on
obj1, obj2, S: True
obj1
obj2
S
C
1.75
S1
S2
(1.6, 0.0, 0.0)
B1
B1
relative magnitude volume
spatial order
occlusion relationship
same parent space
same parent building
attributes
Figure 1. 3D Scene Graph: It consists of 4 layers, that represent
semantics, 3D space and camera. Elements are nodes in the graph
and have certain attributes. Edges are formed between them to
denote relationships (e.g., occlusion, relative volume, etc.).
highly variant to any parameter change, the absence of an
object’s entire geometry, and more.
An ideal space for
this purpose would be at minimum (a) invariant to as many
15664
changes as possible, and (b) easily and deterministically
connected to various output ports that different domains and
tasks require, such as images or videos. To this end, we ar-
ticulate that 3D space is more stable and invariant, yet con-
nected to images and other pixel and non-pixel output do-
mains (e.g. depth). Hence, we ground semantic information
there, and project it to other desired spaces as needed (e.g.,
images, etc.).
Speciﬁcally, this means that the informa-
tion is grounded on the underlying 3D mesh of a building.
This approach presents a number of useful values, such as
free 3D, amodal, occlusion, and open space analysis. More
importantly, semantics can be projected onto any number
of visual observations (images and videos) which provides
them with annotations without additional cost.
What should be the structure? Semantic repositories use
different representations, such as object class and natural
language captions. The idea of scene graph has several ad-
vantages over other representations that make it an ideal
candidate. It has the ability to encompass more informa-
tion than just object class (e.g., ImageNet [14]), yet it con-
tains more structure and invariance than natural language
captions (e.g., CLEVR [22]). We augment the basic scene
graph structure, such as the one in Visual Genome [27], with
essential 3D information and generate a 3D Scene Graph.
We view 3D Scene Graph as a layered graph, with each
level representing a different entity: building, room, object,
and camera. More layers can be added that represent other
sources of semantic information. Similar to the 2D scene
graph, each entity is augmented with several attributes and
gets connected to others to form different types of relation-
ships. To construct the 3D Scene Graph, we combine state-
of-the-art algorithms in a mainly automatic approach to se-
mantic recognition. Beginning from 2D, we gradually ag-
gregate information in 3D using two constraints: framing
and multi-view consistency. Each constraint provides more
robust ﬁnal results and consistent semantic output.
The contributions of this paper can be summarized as:
• We extend the scene graph idea in [27] to 3D space
and ground semantic information there. This gives free
computation for various attributes and relationships.
• We propose a two-step robustiﬁcation approach to op-
timizing semantic recognition using imperfect exist-
ing detectors, which allows the automation of a mainly
manual task.
• We augment the Gibson Environment’s [44] database
with 3D Scene Graph as an additional modal-
ity and make it publicly available at 3dscene-
graph.stanford.edu.
2. Related Work
Scene Graph
A diverse and structured repository is Vi-
sual Genome [27], which consists of 2D images in the wild
of objects and people. Semantic information per image is
encoded in the form of a scene graph. In addition to object
class and location, it offers attributes and relationships. The
nodes and edges in the graph stem from natural language
captions that are manually deﬁned. To address naming in-
consistencies due to the free form of annotations, entries are
canonicalized before getting converted into the ﬁnal scene
graph. In our work, semantic information is generated in an
automated fashion - hence signiﬁcantly more efﬁcient, al-
ready standardized, and to a great extent free from human
subjectivity. Although using predeﬁned categories can be
restrictive, it is compatible with current learning systems.
In addition, 3D Scene Graph allows to compute from 3D an
unlimited number of spatially consistent 2D scene graphs
and provides numerically accurate quantiﬁcation to rela-
tionships. However, our current setup is limited to indoor
static scenes, hence not including outdoor related attributes
or action-related relationships, like Visual Genome.
Using Scene Graphs
Following Visual Genome, several
works emerged that employ or generate scene graphs. Ex-
amples are on scene graph generation [30, 46], image cap-
tioning/description [26, 3, 23], image retrieval [24] and
visual question-answering [17, 51].
Apart from vision-
language tasks, there is also a focus relationship and action
detection [34, 31, 47]. A 3D Scene Graph will similarly
enable, in addition to common 3D vision tasks, others to
emerge in the combination of 3D space, 2D-2.5D images,
video streams, and language.
Utilizing Structure in Prediction
Adding structure to
prediction, usually in the form of a graph, has proven ben-
eﬁcial for several tasks. One common application is that of
Conditional Random Fields (CRF) [28] for semantic seg-
mentation, often used to provide globally smooth and con-
sistent results to local predictions [43, 25]. In the case of
robot navigation, employing semantic graphs to abstract the
physical map allows the agent to learn by understanding
the relationship between semantic nodes independent of the
metric space, which results to easier generalization across
spaces [42].
Graph structures are also commonly used
in human-object interaction tasks [39] and other spatio-
temporal problems [20], creating connections among nodes
within and across consecutive video frames, hence extend-
ing structure to include, in addition to space, also time.
Grammars that combine geometry, affordance and appear-
ance have been used toward holistic scene parsing in im-
ages, where information about the scene and objects is
captured in a hierarchical tree structure [11, 48, 21, 19].
Nodes represent scene or object components and attributes,
whereas edges can represent decomposition (e.g., a scene
into objects, etc.) or relationship (e.g., supporting, etc.).
Similar to such works, our structure combines different se-
mantic information. However, it can capture global 3D re-
lationships on the building scale and provides greater free-
5665
dom in the deﬁnition of the graph by placing elements in
different layers. This removes the need for direct depen-
dencies across them (e.g., between a scene type and object
attributes). Another interesting example is that of Visual
Memex [36] that leverages a graph structure to encode con-
textual and visual similarities between objects without the
notion of categories, with the goal to predict the object class
laying under a masked region. Zhu et al. [50] used a knowl-
edge base representation for the task of object affordance
reasoning that places edges between different nodes of ob-
jects, attributes, and affordances. These examples incor-
porate different types of semantic information in a uniﬁed
structure for multi-modal reasoning. The above echoes the
value of having richly structured information.
Semantic Databases
Existing semantic repositories are
fragmented
to
speciﬁc
types
of
visual
information,
with their majority focusing on object class labels and
spatial span/positional information (e.g.,
segmentation
masks/bounding boxes). These can be further sub-grouped
based on the visual modality (e.g., RGB, RGBD, point
clouds, 3D mesh/CAD models, etc.)
and content scene
(e.g., indoor/outdoor, object only, etc.). Among them, a
handful provides multimodal data grounded on 3D meshes
(e.g., 2D-3D-S [6], Matterport3D [10]).
The Gibson
database, recently presented in [44], consists of several hun-
dreds of 3D mesh models with registered panoramic im-
ages. It is approximately 35 and 4.5 times larger in ﬂoor-
plan than the 2D-3D-S and Matterport3D datasets respec-
tively, however, it currently lacks semantic annotations.
Other repositories specialize on different types of seman-
tic information, such as materials (e.g., Materials in Context
Database (MINC) [8]), visual/tactile textures (e.g., Describ-
able Textures Dataset (DTD) [12]) and scene categories
(e.g., MIT Places [49]).
Automatic and Semi-automatic Semantic Detection
Semantic detection is a highly active ﬁeld (a detailed
overview is out of scope for this paper). The main point
to stress is that, similar to the repositories, works are fo-
cused on a limited semantic information scope. Object Se-
mantics range from class recognition to spatial span deﬁni-
tion (bounding box/segmentation mask). One of the most
recent works is Mask R-CNN [18], which provides object
instance segmentation masks in RGB images. Other ones
with similar output are Blitz-Net [15] (RGB) and Frustum
PointNet [38] (RGB-D).
In addition to detection methods, crowd-sourcing data
annotation is a common strategy, especially when build-
ing a new repository.
Although most approaches focus
solely on manual labor, some employ automation to mini-
mize the amount of human interaction with the data and pro-
vide faster turnaround. Similar to our approach, Andriluka
et al. [4] employ Mask R-CNN trained on the COCO-
Stuff dataset to acquire initial object instance segmentation
masks that are subsequently veriﬁed and updated by users.
Polygon-RNN [9, 2] is another machine-assisted annotation
tool which provides contours of objects in images given
user-deﬁned bounding boxes. Both remain in the 2D world
and focus on object category and segmentation mask.
Others employ lower-level automation to accelerate an-
notations in 3D. ScanNet [13] proposes a web-interface for
manual annotation of 3D mesh models of indoor spaces.
It begins with an over-segmentation of the scene using a
graph-cut based approach. Users are then prompted to label
these segments with the goal of object instance segmenta-
tion. [37] has a similar starting point; the resulting over-
segments are further grouped into larger regions based on
geometry and appearance cues. These regions are edited by
users to get object semantic annotations. [41] employs ob-
ject segmentation masks and labels from 2D annotations to
automatically recover the 3D scene geometry.
Despite the incorporation of automation, the above meth-
ods largely rely on human interaction to achieve sufﬁciently
accurate results.
3. 3D Scene Graph Structure
The input to our method is the typical output of 3D
scanners and consists of 3D mesh models, registered RGB
panoramas and the corresponding camera parameters, such
as the data in Matterport3D [10] or Gibson [44] databases.
The output is the 3D Scene Graph of the scanned space,
which we formulate as a four-layered graph (see Figure 1).
Each layer has a set of nodes, each node has a set of at-
tributes, and there are edges between nodes which repre-
sent their relationships. The ﬁrst layer is the entire building
and includes the root node for a given mesh model in the
graph (e.g., a residential building). The rooms of the build-
ing compose the second layer of 3D Scene Graph, and each
room is represented with a unique node (e.g., a living room).
Objects within the rooms form the third layer (e.g., a chair
or a wall). The ﬁnal layer introduces cameras as part of the
graph: each camera location is a node in 3D and a possible
observation (e.g., an RGB image) is associated with it.
Attributes: Each building, room, object and camera node in
the graph - from now on referred to as element - has a set of
attributes. Some examples are the object class, 3D shape,
material type, pose information, and more.
Relationships: Connections between elements are estab-
lished with edges and can span within or across different
layers (e.g., object-object, camera-object-room, etc.). A full
list of the attributes and relationships is in Table 1.
4. Constructing the 3D Scene Graph
To construct the 3D Scene Graph we need to identify its
elements, their attributes, and relationships. Given the num-
ber of elements and the scale, annotating the input RGB and
5666
(b) Framing
(c) Multi-View Consistency
(d) Space Graph
Objects
Cameras
Rooms
FOV: 75
modality: RGB
pose: (3.8, 4.2, 7.2, 0, -10, 55)
resolution: 1024x1024
class: living room
shape: prism rectangular
size: (6.5, 4.9, 3.5)
illumination: [18 ceiling lights,
                           3 spotlights, 
                          11 windows, 
                          2 lamps]
obj1
obj2
obj1
obj2
obj2
obj1
class: bed
color: blue, brown 
material: wood, fabric
area: 2.2 m2
shape: prism rectangular
action affordance: sit on, lay on
obj1
obj2
S
C
S1
S2
(a) Input
Figure 2. Constructing the 3D Scene Graph. (a) Input to the method is a 3D mesh model with registered panoramic images. (b) Each
panorama is densely sampled for rectilinear images. Mask R-CNN detections on them are aggregated back on the panoramas with a
weighted majority voting scheme. (c) Single panorama projections are then aggregated on the 3D mesh. (d) These detections become the
nodes of 3D Scene Graph. A subsequent automated step calculates the remaining attributes and relationships.
3D mesh data with object labels and their spatial span is the
major labor bottleneck of constructing the 3D Scene Graph.
Hence the primary focus of this paper is on addressing this
issue by presenting an automatic method that uses exist-
ing semantic detectors to bootrstap the annotation pipeline
and minimize human labor. An overview of the pipeline is
shown in Figure 2. In our experiments (Section 5), we used
the best reported performing Mask R-CNN network [18]
and got results only for detections with a conﬁdence score
of 0.7 or higher. However, since detection results are imper-
fect, we propose two robustiﬁcation mechanisms to increase
their performance, namely framing and multi-view consis-
tency, that operate on the 2D and 3D domains respectively.
Table 1. 3D Scene Graph Attributes and Relationships
Elements
Attributes
Relationships
Object (O)
Action Affordance, Area, Class,
Color, ID, Location, Material,
Occupancy, Shape, Size, Spatial Span,
Tactile Texture, Visual Texture, Volume
Amodal Mask (O,C), Parent Space (O,S),
Occlusion Relationship (O,O,C),
Same Parent Room (O,O,S), Spatial Order (O,O,C)
Relative Magnitude (O,O)
Space (S)
Area, ID, Illumination, Location,
Occupancy, Scene Category,
Shape, Size, Spatial Span, Volume
Spatial Order (S,S,C), Parent Building (S,B),
Relative Magnitude (S,S)
Building (B)
Area, Building Reference Center,
Function, ID, Number of Floors,
Shape, Size, Volume
Camera(C)
Field Of View, ID, Modality,
Pose, Resolution
Parent Space (C,S)
Framing on Panoramic Images
2D semantic algorithms
operate on rectilinear images and one of the most common
errors associated with their output is incorrect detections for
partially captured objects at the boundaries of the images.
When the same objects are observed from a slightly differ-
ent viewpoint that places them closer to the center of the
image and does not partially capture them, the detection ac-
curacy is improved. Having RGB panoramas as input gives
the opportunity to formulate a framing approach that sam-
ples rectilinear images from them with the objective to max-
imize detection accuracy. This approach is summarized in
Figure 3. It utilizes two heuristics: (a) placing the object
at the center of the image and (b) having the image prop-
erly zoomed-in around it to provide enough context. We be-
gin by densely sampling rectilinear images on the panorama
with different yaw (ψ), pitch (θ) and Field of View (FoV)
camera parameters, with the goal of having at least one im-
age that satisﬁes the heuristics for each object in the scene:
ψ = [−180◦, 180◦, 15◦], θ = [−15◦, 15◦, 15◦]
FoV = [75◦, 105◦, 15◦]
This results in a total of 225 images of size 800 by 800 pix-
els per panorama and serves as the input to Mask-RCNN.
To prune out imperfections in the rectilinear detection re-
sults, we aggregate them on the panorama using a weighted
voting scheme where the weights take into account: the
predictions’ conﬁdence score and the distance of the detec-
tion from the center of the image. In speciﬁc, we compute
weights per pixel for each class as follows:
wi,λ =
X
j,Ldij =λ
Sdij
kCdij −Cjk
where wi,λ is the weight of panorama pixel i for class λ,
Ldij is the class of detection dij for i in rectilinear frame j,
Sdij is the conﬁdence score and Cdij is the center pixel lo-
cation for the detection, and Cj is the center of j. Given
these weights, we compute the highest scoring class per
pixel. However, performing the aggregation on individual
pixels can result to local inconsistencies, since it disregards
information on which pixels could belong to an object in-
stance. Thus, we look at each rectilinear detection and use
the highest scoring classes of the contained panorama pixels
as a pool of candidates for their ﬁnal label. We assign the
one that is the most prevalent among them. At this stage, the
panorama is segmented per class, but not per instance. To
5667
miss-detections
(a) Panoramic Image
1
2
2
4
3
3
1
2
2
4
3
3
Active Camera Fixation Frames
1
3
2
4
chair
dining table
oven
clock
book
bowl
refrigerator
microwave
potted plant
couch
(b) MaskRCNN detections
(c) Aggregated Instance Segmentation Results
Figure 3. Framing: Examples of sampled rectilinear images using the framing robustiﬁcation mechanism are shown in the dashed colored
boxes. Detections (b) on individual frames are not error-free (miss-detections are shown with arrows). The errors are pruned out with
weighted majority voting to get the ﬁnal panorama labels.
address this, we ﬁnd the per-class connected components;
this gives us instance segmentation masks.
Multi-view consistency
With the RGB panoramas regis-
tered on the 3D mesh, we can annotate it by projecting the
2D pixel labels on the 3D surfaces. However, a mere projec-
tion of a single panorama does not yield accurate segmen-
tation, because of imperfect panorama results (Figure 4(b)),
as well as common poor reconstruction of certain objects
or misalignment between image pixels and mesh surfaces
(camera registration errors). This leads to labels ”leaking”
on neighboring objects (Figure 4(c)). However, the objects
in the scene are visible from multiple panoramas, which en-
ables using multi-view consistency to ﬁx such issues. This
makes our second robustiﬁcation mechanism. We begin by
projecting all panorama labels on the 3D mesh surfaces. To
aggregate the casted votes, we formulate a weighted major-
ity voting scheme based on how close an observation point
is to a surface, following the heuristic that the closer the
camera to the object, the larger and better visible it is. In
speciﬁc, we deﬁne weights as:
wi,j =
P
i,jkPi −Fcjk
kPi −Fcjk
where wi,j is the weight of a face Fj with respect to a cam-
era location Pi and Fcj is the 3D coordinates of Fj’s center.
Similar to the framing mechanism, voting is performed
on the detection level. We look for label consistency across
the group of faces Fobj that receives votes from the same
object instance in a panorama. We ﬁrst do weighted major-
ity voting on individual faces to determine the pool of label
candidates for Fobj as it results from casting all panoramas,
and then use the one that is most present to assign it to the
group. A last step of ﬁnding connected components in 3D
gives us the ﬁnal instance segmentation masks. This in-
formation can be projected back on the panoramas, hence
providing consistent 2D and 3D labels.
background
chair
couch
table
refrigerator
oven
plant
sink
bowl
microwave
vase
unseen
(b) Framing
(c) Single-Pano 
Projection on 3D
(a) Input
(d) Multi-View 
Consistency
Figure 4. Multi-view consistency: Semantic labels from different
panoramas are combined on the ﬁnal mesh via multi-view consis-
tency. Even though the individual projections carry errors from the
panorama labels and poor 3D reconstruction/camera registration,
observing the object from different viewpoints can ﬁx them.
4.1. User-in-the-loop veriﬁcation
As a ﬁnal step, we perform manual veriﬁcation of the
automatically extracted results. We develop web interfaces
with which users verify and correct them when necessary.
Screenshots and more details on this step are offered in [5].
We crowd-sourced the veriﬁcation in Amazon Mechanical
Turk (AMT). However, we do not view this as a crucial step
of the pipeline as the automated results without any veriﬁca-
tion are sufﬁciently robust to be of certain practical uses (see
Section 5.3 and [5]). The manual veriﬁcation is performed
mostly for evaluation purposes and forming error-free data
for certain research use cases.
The pipeline consists of two main steps (all operations
are performed on rectilinear images). Veriﬁcation and edit-
ing: After projecting the ﬁnal 3D mesh labels on panora-
mas, we render rectilinear images that show each found ob-
ject in the center and to its fullest extent, including 20%
surrounding context. We ask users to (a) verify the label of
the shown object - if wrong, the image is discarded from
the rest of the process; (b) verify the object’s segmentation
5668
mask; if the mask does not fulﬁll the criteria, users (c) add
a new segmentation mask. Addition of missing objects: The
previous step reﬁnes our automatic results, but there may
still be missing objects. We project the veriﬁed masks back
on the panorama and decompose it in 5 overlapping recti-
linear images (72◦of yaw difference per image). This step
(a) asks users if any instance of an object category is miss-
ing, and if found incomplete, (b) they recursively add masks
until all instances of the object category are masked out.
4.2. Computation of attributes and relationships
The described approach gives as output the object ele-
ments of the graph. To compute attributes and relationships,
we use off-the-shelf learning and analytical methods. For a
full description of them and for a video with results see [5].
5. Experiments
We evaluate our automatic pipeline on the Gibson Envi-
ronment’s [44] database.
5.1. Dataset Statistics
The Gibson Environment’s database consists of 572 full
buildings. It is collected from real indoor spaces and pro-
vides for each building the corresponding 3D mesh model,
RGB panoramas and camera pose information1. We anno-
tate with our automatic pipeline all 2D and 3D modalities,
and manually verify this output on Gisbon’s tiny split. The
semantic categories used come from the COCO dataset [33]
for objects, MINC [8] for materials, and DTD [12] for tex-
tures. A more detailed analysis of the dataset and insights
per attributes and relationships is in [5].
5.2. Evaluation of Automated Pipeline
We evaluate our automated pipeline both on 2D panora-
mas and 3D mesh models. We follow the COCO evalu-
ation protocol [33] and report the average precision (AP)
and recall (AR) for both modalities. We use the best off-
the-shelf Mask R-CNN model trained on the COCO dataset.
Speciﬁcally, we choose Mask R-CNN with Bells & Whis-
tles from Detectron [1]. According to the model notes, it
uses a ResNeXt-152 (32x8d) [45] in combination with a
Feature Pyramid Network (FPN) [32]. It is pre-trained on
ImageNet-5K and ﬁne-tuned on COCO. For more details
on implementation and training/testing we refer the reader
to Mask R-CNN [18] and Detectron [1].
Baselines: We compare the following approaches in 2D:
•
Mask R-CNN [18]: We run Mask R-CNN on 6 rectilin-
ear images sampled on the panorama with no overlap.
The detections are projected back on the panorama.
•
Mask R-CNN with Framing: The panorama results here
are obtained from our ﬁrst robustiﬁcation mechanism.
1For more details visit gibsonenv.stanford.edu/database
c.
a.
chair
couch
table
refrigerator
oven
plant
sink
bowl
microwave
vase
b.
d.
e.
Figure 5. Detection results on panoramas: (a) Image, (b) Mask
R-CNN [18], (c) Mask R-CNN w/ Framing, (d) Mask R-CNN
w/ Framing and Multi-View Consistency (our ﬁnal results), (e)
Ground Truth (best viewed on screen). For larger and additional
visualizations see [5].
•
Mask R-CNN with Framing and Multi-View Consis-
tency (MVC) - ours: This is our automated method. The
panorama results are obtained after applying both robus-
tiﬁcation mechanisms.
And these in 3D:
•
Mask R-CNN [18] and Pano Projection: The panorama
results of Mask R-CNN are projected on the 3D mesh
surfaces with simple majority voting per face.
•
Mask R-CNN with Framing and Pano Projection: The
panorama results from our ﬁrst mechanism follow a sim-
ilar 2D-to-3D projection and aggregation process.
•
Mask R-CNN with Framing and Multi-View Consis-
tency (MVC) - ours: This is our automated method.
As shown in Table 2, each mechanism in our approach
contributes an additional boost in the ﬁnal accuracy. This is
also visible in the qualitative results, with each step further
removing erroneous detections. For example, in the ﬁrst
column of Figure 5, Mask R-CNN (b) detected the trees
outside the windows as potted plants, a vase on a painting
and a bed reﬂection in the mirror. Mask R-CNN with fram-
ing (c) was able to remove the tree detections and recuperate
a missed toilet that is highly occluded. Mask R-CNN with
framing and multi-view consistency (d) further removed the
5669
Table 2. Evaluation of the automated pipeline on 2D panoramas and 3D mesh. We compute Average Precision (AP) and Average
Recall (AR) for both modalities based on COCO evaluation [33].
Method
2D
3D
Mask R-CNN
Ours
Ours
Mask R-CNN
Ours
Ours
Mask R-CNN
Mask R-CNN
Mask R-CNN
Mask R-CNN
[18]
w/ Framing
w/ Framing + MVC
+ Pano Projection
w/ Framing + Pano Projection
w/ Framing + MVC
AP
0.079
0.160
0.485
0.222
0.306
0.409
AP.50
0.166
0.316
0.610
0.445
0.539
0.665
AP.75
0.070
0.147
0.495
0.191
0.322
0.421
AR
0.151
0.256
0.537
0.187
0.261
0.364
painted vase and bed reﬂection, achieving results very close
to the ground truth. Similar improvements can be seen in
the case of 3D (Figure 6). Even though they might not ap-
pear as large quantitatively, they are crucial for getting con-
sistent 3D results with most changes relating to consistent
local regions and better object boundaries.
Human Labor: We perform a user study to associate
detection performance with human labor (hours spent). The
results are in Table 3. Note that the hours reported for the
fully manual 3D annotation [7] are computed for 12 object
classes (versus 62 in ours) and for an expert 3D annotator
(versus non-skilled labor in ours).
Table 3. Mean time spent by human annotators per model.
Each step is done by 2 users independently for cross checking.
Method
Ours w/o
Ours w/
Human
[7]
human (FA)
human (MV)
only (FM 2D)
(FM 3D)
AP
0.389
0.97
1
1
Time (h)
0
03:18:02
12:44:10
10:18:06
FA: fully automatic — FM: fully manual — MV: mavual veriﬁcation
Using different detectors: Until this point we have been
using the best performing Mask R-CNN network with a
41.5 reported AP on COCO [18]. We want to further under-
stand the behavior of the two robustiﬁcation mechanisms
when using a less accurate detector. To this end, we per-
form another set of experiments using BlitzNet [15], a net-
work with faster inference but worse reported performance
on the COCO dataset (AP 34.1). We notice that the results
for both detectors provide a similar relative increase in AP
among the different baselines (Table 4). This suggests that
the robustiﬁcation mechanisms can provide similar value in
increasing the performance of standard detectors and cor-
rect errors, regardless of initial predictions.
5.3. 2D Scene Graph Prediction
So far we focused on the automated detection results.
These will next go through an automated step to generate
the ﬁnal 3D Scene Graph and compute attributes and rela-
tionships. Results on this can be seen in [5]. We use this
output for experiments on 2D scene graph prediction.
There are 3 standard evaluation setups for 2D scene
graphs (SG) [35]: (a) SG Detection, (b) SG Classiﬁca-
tion, and (c) Relationship Classiﬁcation (for an explanation
d.
a.
b.
c.
chair
couch
table
refrigerator
oven
plant
sink
bowl
microwave
vase
background
unseen
Figure 6. 3D detection results on mesh models: (a) Mask R-
CNN [18] + Pano Projection, (b) Mask R-CNN w/ Framing + Pano
Projection, (c) Mask R-CNN w/ Framing and Multi-View Consis-
tency (our ﬁnal results), (d) Ground Truth (best viewed on screen).
For larger and additional visualizations see [5].
see [5]). In contrast to Visual Genome where only sparse
and instance-speciﬁc relationships exist, our graph is dense,
hence some of the evaluations (e.g., relationship detection)
are not applicable. We focus on relationship classiﬁcation
and provide results on: (a) spatial order and (b) relative
volume classiﬁcation, as well as on (c) amodal mask seg-
mentation as an application of the occlusion relationship.
Spatial Order:
Given an RGB rectilinear image and the
(visible) segmentation masks of an object pair, we predict
if the query object is in front/behind, to the left/right of the
other object. We train a ResNet34 using the segmentation
masks that were automatically generated by our method,
and use the medium Gibson data split. The baseline is Sta-
tistically Informed Guess extracted from the training data.
Relative Volume: We follow the same setup and predict
5670
Table 4. AP performance of using different detectors.
Method
Detector
Detector
Detector
Detector
Detector
Detector
w Framing
w/ Framing + MVC
+ Pano projection
w Framing + Pano projection
w/ Framing + MVC
Mask R-CNN [18]
0.079
+0.081
+0.406
0.222
+0.084
+0.187
BlitzNet [15]
0.095
+0.103
+0.189
0.076
+0.089
+0.169
Spatial Order
Relative Volume
query
right-front of query
left-front of query
left-behind of query
right-behind of query
query
larger than query
smaller than query
Figure 7. Classiﬁcation results of scene graph relationships.
whether the query object is smaller or larger in volume than
the other object. Figure 7 shows results of predictions for
both tasks, whereas quantitative evaluations are in Table 5.
Table 5. Mean AP for SG Predicate Classiﬁcation.
SG Predicate
Baseline
Ours
Spatial Order
0.255
0.712
Relative Volume
0.555
0.820
Amodal Mask Segmentation: We predict the 2D amodal
segmentation of an object partially occluded by others given
a camera location. Since our semantic information resides
in 3D space, we can infer the full extents of object occlu-
sions without additional annotations and in a fully automat-
ically way, considering the difﬁculties of data collection in
previous works [29, 52, 16]. We train a U-Net [40] agnos-
tic to semantic class, to predict per-pixel segmentation of
visible/occluded mask of an object centered on an RGB im-
age (Amodal Prediction (Ours)). As baselines, we take an
average of amodal masks (a) over the training data (Avg.
Amodal Mask) and (b) per-semantic class assuming its per-
fect knowledge at test time (Avg. Class Speciﬁc Amodal
Mask). More information on data generation and experi-
mental setup is in [5]. We report f1-score and intersection-
over-union as a per-pixel classiﬁcation of three semantic
classes (empty, occluded, and visible) along with the macro
average (Table 6). Although the performance gap may not
look signiﬁcant due to a heavy bias of empty class, our ap-
proach consistently shows signiﬁcant performance boost in
predicting occluded area, demonstrating that it successfully
learned amodal perception unlike baselines (Figure 8).
6. Conclusion
We discussed the grounding of multi-modal 3D semantic
information in a uniﬁed structure that establishes relation-
Image
Amodal Mask 
Prediction
Ground Truth
Figure 8. Sample results of amodal mask segmentation with
Amodal Prediction (Ours). blue: visible, red: occluded.
Table 6. Amodal mask segmentation quantitative results.
f1-score
empty
occluded
visible
avg
Avg. Amodal Mask
0.934
0.000
0.505
0.479
Avg. Class Speciﬁc Amodal Mask
0.939
0.097
0.599
0.545
Amodal Prediction (Ours)
0.946
0.414
0.655
0.672
IoU
empty
occluded
visible
avg
Avg. Amodal Mask
0.877
0.0
0.337
0.405
Avg. Class Speciﬁc Amodal Mask
0.886
0.051
0.427
0.455
Amodal Prediction (Ours)
0.898
0.261
0.488
0.549
ships between objects, 3D space, and camera. We ﬁnd that
such a setup can provide insights on several existing tasks
and allow new ones to emerge in the intersection of seman-
tic information sources. To construct the 3D Scene Graph,
we presented a mainly automatic approach that increases
the robustness of current learning systems with framing and
multi-view consistency. We demonstrated this on the Gib-
son dataset, which 3D Scene Graph results are publicly
available. We plan to extend the object categories to include
more objects commonly present in indoor scenes, since cur-
rent annotations tend to be sparse in places.
Acknowledgements:
We
acknowledge
the
support
of
Google (GWNHT), ONR MURI (N00014-16-l-2713) and Nvidia
(GWMVU).
References
[1] Detectron
model
zoo.
https://github.com/
facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/
MODEL_ZOO.md. Accessed: 2019-08-12.
[2] David Acuna, Huan Ling, Amlan Kar, and Sanja Fidler. Ef-
ﬁcient interactive annotation of segmentation datasets with
5671
polygon-rnn++. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 859–868,
2018.
[3] Peter Anderson, Basura Fernando, Mark Johnson, and
Stephen Gould. Spice: Semantic propositional image cap-
tion evaluation. In European Conference on Computer Vi-
sion, pages 382–398. Springer, 2016.
[4] Mykhaylo Andriluka, Jasper RR Uijlings, and Vittorio
Ferrari.
Fluid annotation:
a human-machine collabora-
tion interface for full image annotation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.07527, 2018.
[5] Iro Armeni, Jerry He, JunYoung Gwak, Amir R Zamir,
Martin Fischer,
Jitendra Malik,
and Silvio Savarese.
Supplementary material for:
3d scene graph:
A struc-
ture
for
uniﬁed
semantics,
3d
space,
and
camera.
http://3dscenegraph.stanford.edu/images/
supp_mat.pdf. Accessed: 2019-08-16.
[6] Iro Armeni, Sasha Sax, Amir R Zamir, and Silvio Savarese.
Joint 2d-3d-semantic data for indoor scene understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01105, 2017.
[7] Iro Armeni, Ozan Sener, Amir R Zamir, Helen Jiang, Ioannis
Brilakis, Martin Fischer, and Silvio Savarese. 3d semantic
parsing of large-scale indoor spaces. In Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion, pages 1534–1543, 2016.
[8] Sean Bell, Paul Upchurch, Noah Snavely, and Kavita Bala.
Material recognition in the wild with the materials in con-
text database.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3479–3487,
2015.
[9] Lluis Castrejon, Kaustav Kundu, Raquel Urtasun, and Sanja
Fidler. Annotating object instances with a polygon-rnn. In
CVPR, volume 1, page 2, 2017.
[10] Angel Chang, Angela Dai, Thomas Funkhouser, Maciej
Halber, Matthias Nießner, Manolis Savva, Shuran Song,
Andy Zeng, and Yinda Zhang.
Matterport3d: Learning
from rgb-d data in indoor environments.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1709.06158, 2017.
[11] Wongun Choi, Yu-Wei Chao, Caroline Pantofaru, and Silvio
Savarese. Understanding indoor scenes using 3d geometric
phrases. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 33–40, 2013.
[12] Mircea Cimpoi, Subhransu Maji, Iasonas Kokkinos, Sammy
Mohamed, and Andrea Vedaldi. Describing textures in the
wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3606–3613, 2014.
[13] Angela Dai, Angel X Chang, Manolis Savva, Maciej Hal-
ber, Thomas A Funkhouser, and Matthias Nießner. Scan-
net: Richly-annotated 3d reconstructions of indoor scenes.
In CVPR, volume 2, page 10, 2017.
[14] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li,
and Li Fei-Fei.
Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical im-
age database. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2009. CVPR 2009. IEEE Conference on, pages 248–255.
Ieee, 2009.
[15] Nikita Dvornik, Konstantin Shmelkov, Julien Mairal, and
Cordelia Schmid. Blitznet: A real-time deep network for
scene understanding. In ICCV 2017-International Confer-
ence on Computer Vision, page 11, 2017.
[16] Kiana Ehsani, Roozbeh Mottaghi, and Ali Farhadi. Segan:
Segmenting and generating the invisible.
In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 6144–6153, 2018.
[17] Akira Fukui, Dong Huk Park, Daylen Yang, Anna Rohrbach,
Trevor Darrell, and Marcus Rohrbach.
Multimodal com-
pact bilinear pooling for visual question answering and vi-
sual grounding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01847, 2016.
[18] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Doll´ar, and Ross B.
Girshick. Mask r-cnn. 2017 IEEE International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 2980–2988, 2017.
[19] Siyuan Huang, Siyuan Qi, Yixin Zhu, Yinxue Xiao, Yuanlu
Xu, and Song-Chun Zhu. Holistic 3d scene parsing and re-
construction from a single rgb image. In Proceedings of the
European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages
187–203, 2018.
[20] Ashesh Jain, Amir R Zamir, Silvio Savarese, and Ashutosh
Saxena. Structural-rnn: Deep learning on spatio-temporal
graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5308–5317, 2016.
[21] Chenfanfu Jiang, Siyuan Qi, Yixin Zhu, Siyuan Huang,
Jenny Lin, Lap-Fai Yu, Demetri Terzopoulos, and Song-
Chun Zhu.
Conﬁgurable 3d scene synthesis and 2d im-
age rendering with per-pixel ground truth using stochas-
tic grammars.
International Journal of Computer Vision,
126(9):920–941, 2018.
[22] Justin Johnson, Bharath Hariharan, Laurens van der Maaten,
Li Fei-Fei, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Ross Girshick. Clevr: A
diagnostic dataset for compositional language and elemen-
tary visual reasoning. In Proceedings of the IEEE Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
2901–2910, 2017.
[23] Justin Johnson, Andrej Karpathy, and Li Fei-Fei. Densecap:
Fully convolutional localization networks for dense caption-
ing. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 4565–4574, 2016.
[24] Justin Johnson, Ranjay Krishna, Michael Stark, Li-Jia Li,
David Shamma, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-Fei. Image
retrieval using scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
3668–3678, 2015.
[25] Philipp Kr¨ahenb¨uhl and Vladlen Koltun. Efﬁcient inference
in fully connected crfs with gaussian edge potentials. In Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, pages 109–
117, 2011.
[26] Jonathan Krause, Justin Johnson, Ranjay Krishna, and Li
Fei-Fei. A hierarchical approach for generating descriptive
image paragraphs. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR), 2017 IEEE Conference on, pages 3337–3345.
IEEE, 2017.
[27] Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson,
Kenji Hata, Joshua Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalan-
tidis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, et al.
Visual genome:
Connecting language and vision using crowdsourced dense
image annotations. International Journal of Computer Vi-
sion, 123(1):32–73, 2017.
5672
[28] John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando CN Pereira.
Conditional random ﬁelds: Probabilistic models for seg-
menting and labeling sequence data. 2001.
[29] Ke Li and Jitendra Malik. Amodal instance segmentation. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 677–693.
Springer, 2016.
[30] Yikang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Bolei Zhou, Kun Wang, and Xi-
aogang Wang. Scene graph generation from objects, phrases
and region captions. In ICCV, 2017.
[31] Xiaodan Liang, Lisa Lee, and Eric P Xing. Deep variation-
structured reinforcement learning for visual relationship and
attribute detection. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR), 2017 IEEE Conference on, pages 4408–4417.
IEEE, 2017.
[32] Tsung-Yi Lin, Piotr Doll´ar, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He,
Bharath Hariharan, and Serge Belongie.
Feature pyra-
mid networks for object detection.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-
tion, pages 2117–2125, 2017.
[33] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James Hays,
Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Doll´ar, and C Lawrence
Zitnick. Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. In
European conference on computer vision, pages 740–755.
Springer, 2014.
[34] Cewu Lu, Ranjay Krishna, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-
Fei. Visual relationship detection with language priors. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 852–869.
Springer, 2016.
[35] Cewu Lu, Ranjay Krishna, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-
Fei. Visual relationship detection with language priors. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 852–869.
Springer, 2016.
[36] Tomasz Malisiewicz and Alyosha Efros. Beyond categories:
The visual memex model for reasoning about object relation-
ships. In Advances in neural information processing systems,
pages 1222–1230, 2009.
[37] Duc Thanh Nguyen, Binh-Son Hua, Lap-Fai Yu, and Sai-Kit
Yeung. A robust 3d-2d interactive tool for scene segmenta-
tion and annotation. IEEE transactions on visualization and
computer graphics, 24(12):3005–3018, 2018.
[38] Charles R Qi, Wei Liu, Chenxia Wu, Hao Su, and Leonidas J
Guibas. Frustum pointnets for 3d object detection from rgb-d
data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.08488, 2017.
[39] Siyuan Qi, Wenguan Wang, Baoxiong Jia, Jianbing Shen,
and Song-Chun Zhu.
Learning human-object interac-
tions by graph parsing neural networks.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1808.07962, 2018.
[40] Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox. U-
net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmen-
tation. In International Conference on Medical image com-
puting and computer-assisted intervention, pages 234–241.
Springer, 2015.
[41] Bryan C Russell and Antonio Torralba. Building a database
of 3d scenes from user annotations.
In 2009 IEEE Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
2711–2718. IEEE, 2009.
[42] Gabriel Sepulveda, Juan Carlos Niebles, and Alvaro Soto.
A deep learning based behavioral approach to indoor au-
tonomous navigation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.04119,
2018.
[43] Lyne Tchapmi, Christopher Choy, Iro Armeni, JunYoung
Gwak, and Silvio Savarese. Segcloud: Semantic segmen-
tation of 3d point clouds. In 3D Vision (3DV), 2017 Interna-
tional Conference on, pages 537–547. IEEE, 2017.
[44] Fei Xia, Amir R Zamir, Zhiyang He, Alexander Sax, Jitendra
Malik, and Silvio Savarese. Gibson env: Real-world percep-
tion for embodied agents. In Proceedings of the IEEE Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
9068–9079, 2018.
[45] Saining Xie, Ross Girshick, Piotr Doll´ar, Zhuowen Tu, and
Kaiming He. Aggregated residual transformations for deep
neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 1492–1500,
2017.
[46] Danfei Xu, Yuke Zhu, Christopher B Choy, and Li Fei-Fei.
Scene graph generation by iterative message passing. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, volume 2, 2017.
[47] Hanwang Zhang, Zawlin Kyaw, Shih-Fu Chang, and Tat-
Seng Chua. Visual translation embedding network for visual
relation detection. In CVPR, volume 1, page 5, 2017.
[48] Yibiao Zhao and Song-Chun Zhu. Scene parsing by integrat-
ing function, geometry and appearance models. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 3119–3126, 2013.
[49] Bolei Zhou, Agata Lapedriza, Jianxiong Xiao, Antonio Tor-
ralba, and Aude Oliva.
Learning deep features for scene
recognition using places database.
In Advances in neural
information processing systems, pages 487–495, 2014.
[50] Yuke Zhu, Alireza Fathi, and Li Fei-Fei. Reasoning about
object affordances in a knowledge base representation. In
European conference on computer vision, pages 408–424.
Springer, 2014.
[51] Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-Fei.
Visual7w: Grounded question answering in images. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 4995–5004, 2016.
[52] Yan Zhu, Yuandong Tian, Dimitris Metaxas, and Piotr
Doll´ar.
Semantic amodal segmentation.
In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 1464–1472, 2017.
5673
