Weakly Supervised Visual Semantic Parsing
Alireza Zareian, Svebor Karaman, and Shih-Fu Chang
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA
{az2407,sk4089,sc250}@columbia.edu
Abstract
Scene Graph Generation (SGG) aims to extract enti-
ties, predicates and their semantic structure from images,
enabling deep understanding of visual content, with many
applications such as visual reasoning and image retrieval.
Nevertheless, existing SGG methods require millions of
manually annotated bounding boxes for training, and are
computationally inefﬁcient, as they exhaustively process all
pairs of object proposals to detect predicates. In this paper,
we address those two limitations by ﬁrst proposing a gener-
alized formulation of SGG, namely Visual Semantic Pars-
ing, which disentangles entity and predicate recognition,
and enables sub-quadratic performance. Then we propose
the Visual Semantic Parsing Network, VSPNET, based on a
dynamic, attention-based, bipartite message passing frame-
work that jointly infers graph nodes and edges through an
iterative process. Additionally, we propose the ﬁrst graph-
based weakly supervised learning framework, based on a
novel graph alignment algorithm, which enables training
without bounding box annotations. Through extensive ex-
periments, we show that VSPNET outperforms weakly su-
pervised baselines signiﬁcantly and approaches fully super-
vised performance, while being several times faster.
We
publicly release the source code of our method1.
1. Introduction
Deep learning has excelled in various tasks such as
object detection [33] and speech recognition [1], but it
falls short of tasks that require deeper semantic under-
standing and reasoning, such as Visual Question Answer-
ing (VQA) [47]. Motivated by the success of structured
representations in natural language processing [2, 34, 37],
computer vision has started to adopt scene graphs to im-
prove performance and explainability, in various tasks
such as VQA [35, 12], image captioning [42], and im-
age retrieval [14].
The task of Scene Graph Generation
(SGG) [40] aims to represent an image with a set of enti-
1https://github.com/alirezazareian/vspnet
Figure 1. An example of structured scene understanding formu-
lated as Scene Graph Generation, where predicates are edges,
compared to the proposed Visual Semantic Parsing, where pred-
icates are nodes and edges represent semantic roles.
ties (nodes) and predicates (directed edges), as illustrated
in Figure 1 (bottom). Several methods have been proposed
to address this problem [40, 20, 41, 48], but despite their
success, important challenges remain unaddressed.
Most existing methods are computationally inefﬁcient,
as they exhaustively process every pair of object proposals,
in order to detect predicates. This results in a quadratic or-
der with respect to the number of proposals. Extending to
higher-order interactions has not been studied, and would
make this problem even more complex. Furthermore, exist-
ing SGG methods require bounding box annotation for each
object (node) in ground truth graphs, over the entire training
data, which is an expensive constraint. We argue that SGG
should ideally be disentangled from bounding box localiza-
tion, so it can focus on high-level semantic and relational
reasoning rather than low-level boundary analysis. How-
ever, weakly supervised SGG has barely been studied, and
the performance is far from supervised methods [50].
To advance structured scene understanding, we propose
the Visual Semantic Parsing Network (VSPNET), which
3736
aims to address the two mentioned limitations, i.e., com-
putation and supervision costs. To this end, we generalize
the formulation of SGG to represent predicates as nodes in
the same semantic space as entity nodes, and instead, repre-
sent semantic roles (e.g. subject and object) as edges. Fig-
ure 1 (top) illustrates the proposed Visual Semantic Pars-
ing (VSP) formalism. This not only allows us to break the
quadratic complexity, but also can support higher-order in-
teractions that cannot be expressed using the existing SGG
formulation. For instance, the semantic structure of a girl
eating cake with fork can be represented as a predi-
cate node, eating, connected to three entity nodes girl,
cake and fork, via three types of edges that are labeled
with subject, object and instrument roles respectively.
Based on this new VSP formulation, we propose a dy-
namic, attention-based, bipartite message passing frame-
work, which jointly infers node labels and edge labels
through an iterative process, resulting in a VSP graph, and
in turn a scene graph. VSPNET consists of a role-driven
attention mechanism to dynamically estimate graph edges,
along with a novel three-stage message aggregation network
to route messages efﬁciently throughout the graph. These
two modules successively reﬁne nodes and edges of the
graph, enabling a joint inference through global reasoning.
The proposed architecture does not need to process all pairs
of object proposals and hence is computationally efﬁcient.
Finally and most importantly, we propose a novel frame-
work to train VSPNET in weakly supervised settings, by
deﬁning a two-stage optimization problem and devising a
novel graph alignment algorithm to solve it.
Through extensive experiments on the Visual Genome
dataset, we show that our method achieves signiﬁcantly
higher accuracy compared to weakly supervised counter-
parts, approaching fully supervised baselines. We also show
that VSPNET is easily extendable to the fully supervised
setting, where it can utilize bounding box annotations to
further improve performance, and outperform the state of
the art. Moreover, we show that our method is several times
faster than all baselines, and qualitatively demonstrate its
ability to extract higher-order interactions, which are be-
yond the capability of any existing method.
2. Related work
Structured scene understanding:
Deep learning often
simpliﬁes computer vision into classiﬁcation or detection
tasks that aim to extract visual concepts such as objects or
actions in isolation. Lu et al. [23] took a key step forward by
deﬁning Visual Relationship Detection (VRD) [49, 50, 21,
7, 31, 45, 51, 13], which aims to classify relationships be-
tween pairs of objects detected in a scene. Their deﬁnition
of “relationship”, also known as predicate, includes verbs
(e.g. eating), spatial positions (e.g. above), and com-
parative adjectives (e.g. taller than). Human-Object
Interaction (HOI) detection [9, 4, 15, 32] is a specialized
version of VRD that focuses on verbs with a human subject.
More recently, Xu et al. [40] redeﬁned VRD as Scene Graph
Generation (SGG) [20, 27, 48, 41, 19, 39], which aims to
jointly detect all objects and predicates in a scene, and rep-
resent it as a graph that captures the holistic scene content.
SGG assumes exactly two entities (subject and object) in-
volved in each predicate, which is not always the case in
the real world. Situation Recognition (SR) [44, 43, 24] re-
solves that limitation by detecting a verb and all of its ar-
guments in a scene, but does not localize the objects, and is
limited to one verb per image. Our proposed VSP can be
seen as a generalization of both SGG and SR, representing
images with semantic graphs that could contain any number
of predicates, localized entities, and semantic roles.
Scene graph generation: The majority of SGG methods
start by extracting object proposals from the input image,
perform some kind of information propagation (e.g. Bi-
LSTMs in [48] or Graph Convolutional Nets in [41]) to
incorporate context, and then classify each proposal to an
entity class, as well as each pair of proposals to a predi-
cate class [40, 20, 48, 19, 39]. This process has a quadratic
order and is thus inefﬁcient.
Recent methods have tried
to reduce the computation by pruning the fully connected
graph using a light-weight model [41], or by factorizing the
graph into smaller sub-graphs [19]. However, they still suf-
fer from quadratic order. Newell and Deng [27] proposed a
method that does not rely on proposals at all, and directly
extracts entities and predicates from a pair of feature maps.
Our method is similar in that we allocate a constant, sub-
quadratic number of predicates and infer their connection
to entities, rather than processing all pairs of entities. In
contrast with [27] though, we base our graph on object pro-
posals and exploit message passing to incorporate context.
Neural message passing: Recent deep learning methods
have increasingly utilized Message Passing (MP) in vari-
ous computer vision tasks [22, 5, 15]. Most SGG meth-
ods use MP to propagate information among object pro-
posals [40, 20, 19, 41]. Instead of relying on a static, of-
ten fully-connected graph, we propose a dynamic, bipartite
graph that is reﬁned using attention to route messages be-
tween relevant entity-predicate pairs. In contrast with other
dynamic MP methods that reﬁne graph edges in each step,
which have been used in other tasks such as HOI [32] and
video object detection [46], we deﬁne edges between enti-
ties and predicates rather than pairs of entities, leading to
computational efﬁciency, while incorporating the rich se-
mantic role structure through three-stage aggregation.
Weakly supervised learning: Weak Supervision (WS) has
been advocated in several areas, such as object, action, and
relation detection [3, 36, 50], and is motivated by the fact
that manual annotation of boundaries is time consuming.
Most WS object detection methods are based upon multiple
3737
instance learning [8], which assumes each ground truth ob-
ject corresponds to one out of many proposals, but the cor-
respondence is unknown. WSDDN [3] dedicates a network
branch to select a proposal for each ground truth. Zhang et
al. [50] adopted WSDDN for VRD, selecting a pair of pro-
posals for each ground truth relation. In contrast, we deﬁne
a global optimization problem where the entire output graph
has to be aligned with the ground truth graph, rather than
considering each predicate independently. Peyre et al. [30]
deﬁned a global optimization for WS VRD too, but it is
limited to a linear regression model for relationship recog-
nition. Our novel WS formulation allows learning with gra-
dient descent, which enables us to train a deep network with
a complex message passing architecture.
3. Method
In this section, we ﬁrst formalize our problem in Sec-
tion 3.1, then detail our method and its two-fold contribu-
tions: the VSPNET architecture for constructing a seman-
tic graph from an image (Section 3.2), and a graph align-
ment algorithm for weakly supervised training of the pro-
posed network (Section 3.3). Figure 2 illustrates the general
pipeline of our method.
3.1. Problem formulation
Given an image I, the goal of SGG is to produce a graph
GSGG = (N, E) where each node in N is represented by an
entity class ci ∈Ce and a bounding box bi, and each edge
assigns a predicate class to an ordered pair of nodes, i.e.,
E : N × N 7→Cp. The direction of predicate edges usually
follow the order they would appear in an English phrase.
For instance, a person sitting on chair would be
represented as an edge labeled sitting on, going from
the node person to the node chair, not the other way.
Nevertheless, this notation is inherently limiting, as it re-
stricts predicates to have exactly two arguments present in
the scene. This constraint may be acceptable for relational
predicates such as prepositions, but certainly not for verbs,
which constitute an important group of predicates. To re-
lax this constraint, we follow [44] to adopt the formulation
of Semantic Role Labeling [28], where predicates are rep-
resented as nodes, and edges represent semantic roles that
entities play in each predicate. Accordingly, we deﬁne Vi-
sual Semantic Parsing (VSP) as predicting a bipartite graph
GVSP = (Ne, Np, E), where
Ne =
n ci ∈Ce, bi ∈R4one
i=1,
Np =

ck ∈Cp
	np
k=1, and
E : Np × Ne 7→Cr.
(1)
Every scene graph GSGG has an equivalent VSP graph GVSP
where each predicate has exactly two roles, subject and ob-
ject, meaning Cr = {s, o}.
However, an arbitrary VSP
graph does not necessarily map to a scene graph, as a pred-
icate may connect to less or more than two entities, po-
tentially involving other semantic roles such as instrument.
Hence, VSP is a generalization of SGG.
In this paper we employ the VSP formalism, not only
because it covers a wider range of semantics, but also be-
cause it naturally leads to a more efﬁcient model architec-
ture. In order to consider all possible relationships, most
existing methods process a fully connected graph with n2
e
edges, where ne is usually the number of proposals which
is typically 300. This is while more than 99% of graphs in
Visual Genome have less than 20 predicates, and the largest
one has 53. VSP allows us to replace the n2
e edges with a
constant number of predicate nodes np, far less than n2
e.
3.2. Visual semantic parsing network
We propose VSPNET, which takes an image as input
and generates a VSP graph. To this end, we utilize an ob-
ject proposal network to initialize a set of entity nodes, and
devise another module to initialize a set of predicate nodes.
The goal of VSPNET is to classify each entity and predi-
cate node into entity and predicate classes including back-
ground, and classify each entity-predicate pair into prede-
ﬁned edge types (semantic roles) including no-edge. These
are two co-dependent tasks as incorporating nodes would
be helpful for edge classiﬁcation and vice versa. But since
both of them are unknown and to be determined, our model
successively infers each given the other.
More speciﬁcally, VSPNET is based on a novel bipar-
tite message passing framework that propagates informa-
tion from entities to predicates and vice versa, through a
role-driven attention mechanism that estimates edges. Af-
ter nodes are updated using the estimated edges, we update
edges by recomputing the attention using the new node rep-
resentations, and repeat this process for u iterations. To in-
corporate each semantic role separately, we designate an at-
tention head for each role. This leads to a complex routing
problem where messages from a potentially large number
of nodes have to be propagated through multiple types of
edges. Accordingly, we propose a three-stage message ag-
gregation network to efﬁciently route and collect relevant
messages for updating each node.
Formally, we deﬁne H(0)
e
∈Rne×de to be the initial
hidden state of ne entity nodes, and initialize each row us-
ing the appearance (RoI [33]) features of the correspond-
ing object proposal, as well as its bounding box coordi-
nates, by feeding them into two fully connected networks
ea(.) and eb(.), and adding the two outputs. We also deﬁne
H(0)
p
∈Rnp×dp to be the initial hidden state of np predicate
nodes. H(0)
p
is a trainable matrix, randomly initialized be-
fore training but ﬁxed during test. Given H(t)
e
and H(t)
p , we
compute a set of attention matrices ˜A(t)
r
∈Rnp×ne, each
3738
Figure 2. Overview of our proposed framework: Given an input image and object proposals, a scene graph is produced by an iterative
process involving a multi-headed attention module that infers edges between entities and predicates, and a novel message passing module
to propagate information between nodes and update their states. To deﬁne a classiﬁcation loss for each node and edge, the ground truth
graph is aligned to our output graph through a novel weakly supervised algorithm. Red represents mistake. Best viewed in color.
representing a semantic role class r in Cr:
˜A(t)
r [k, i] =
D
f p
r
 H(t)
p [k]

, f e
r
 H(t)
e [i]
E
,
(2)
where ⟨., .⟩represents dot product, H[k] represents the kth
row of H, and f p
r and f e
r are trainable fully connected net-
works to compute the query and key vectors of the attention.
We further stack ˜A(t)
r
to build the 3-dimensional tensor ˜A(t)
that represents the entire role-driven attention. In our exper-
iments, no predicate can take more than one entity for each
role, and no entity-predicate pair can have more than one
semantic role. Hence, we normalize ˜A(t) such that:
A(t)
r [k, i] =
exp
  ˜A(t)
r [k, i]

p∅+ Pnr
r′=1 exp
  ˜A(t)
r′ [k, i]

×
exp
  ˜A(t)
r [k, i]

p∅+ Pne
i′=1 exp
  ˜A(t)
r [k, i′]
.
(3)
This can be interpreted as applying two softmax functions
in paralell on ˜A(t), once normalizing along the axis of roles,
and once along the axis of entities, and then multiplying the
two normalized matrices, element-wise. The constant p∅is
added to each denominator to allow the sum to be less than
one, e.g. no role between an entity-predicate pair.
After computing attention matrices, we use them to prop-
agate information from each entity to its relevant predicates
and vice versa. To this end, we propose a three-stage mes-
sage aggregation framework, that computes the incoming
message to update each node, by aggregating outgoing mes-
sages from all other nodes, and separately processing them
in the context of each semantic role. More speciﬁcally:
M (t)
p [k] = ge→p A(t), H(t)
e

= gp←
 nr
X
r=1
ge
r
 ne
X
i=1
A(t)
r [k, i]ge→ H(t)
e [i]
!
,
(4)
where ge→
r
, ge
r, and gp←
r
are independent, trainable fully
connected networks, respectively called send head, pool
head, and receive head. Note that the pool head consists
of nr separate networks applied on the pooled messages for
each role. Similarly, the incoming message to update each
entity is computed as:
M (t)
e [i] = gp→e A(t), H(t)
p

= ge←
 nr
X
r=1
gp
r
 np
X
k=1
A(t)
r [k, i]gp→ H(t)
p [k]
!
.
(5)
After collecting messages for each node, we update their
state using two Gated Recurrent Units (GRU) [6].
H(t+1)
e
[i] = GRUe

H(t)
e [i], M (t)
e [i]

, and
H(t+1)
p
[k] = GRUp

H(t)
p [k], M (t)
p [k]

.
(6)
This process is repeated for a constant number of times u,
and the ﬁnal states H(u)
e
and H(u)
p
are passed through an-
other pair of fully connected networks (he, hp) to produce
semantic embeddings EO and P O for entity and predicate
nodes. The ﬁnal state of the adjacency matrices A(u)
r
are
stacked together and named AO.
3739
After the message passing process, we have a con-
tinuous and fully differentiable output graph GO
soft
=
(EO, P O, AO). In order to produce a valid, discrete graph
as deﬁned in Eq. (1), we apply a two-step discretization
process.
First, we convert EO and P O to discrete la-
bels by picking the nearest neighbor of each of their rows
among a dictionary of entity and predicate class embed-
dings.
Next, we threshold the attention matrix AO and
suppress non-maximum roles for each entity-predicate pair.
This leads to a discrete graph GO = (N O
e , N O
p , EO). In
the next subsection, we deﬁne our cost function, where
we also need the opposite process: converting a ground
truth graph GT = (N T
e , N T
p , ET ) to a soft representation
GT
soft = (ET , P T , AT ). To this end, we stack the class em-
bedding of entity and predicate nodes to get matrices ET
and P T , and encode the edges into a binary adjacency ma-
trix AT .
3.3. Weakly supervised training
We train our model using pairs of image and unlocalized
ground truth graph. Speciﬁcally, we need to compare the
soft output graph GO
soft (i.e. before discretization) to the tar-
get GT
soft to calculate a differentiable cost to be minimized.
To this end, we ﬁnd an alignment (i.e., node correspon-
dence) between the two graphs, and then deﬁne the overall
cost as a summation of loss terms over aligned nodes and
edges. Formally, we deﬁne an alignment I as:
I = (Ie, Ip), where
Ie =
n
(i, j)|i ∈{1...nO
e }, j ∈{1...nT
e }
o
, and
Ip =
n
(k, l)|k ∈{1...nO
p }, l ∈{1...nT
p }
o
,
(7)
where nO
e = ne and nO
p = np are the number of output
entity and predicate nodes, while nT
e and nT
p are the number
of ground truth entity and predicate nodes. Ie is a valid
entity alignment if for any output node i there is at most one
target node j, and for each j there is at most one i, where
(i, j) ∈Ie. A similar constraint holds for Ip. Moreover,
Ie is a maximal alignment if all output entities or all target
entities are aligned, whichever is fewer, i.e.
|Ie| = min(nO
e , nT
e ), and similarly,
|Ip| = min(nO
p , nT
p ),
(8)
where |.| denotes set cardinality. Given an alignment I be-
tween output and target graphs, our objective function is:
L(GO, GT , I) = LE + LP + λLR,
(9)
which is a combination of costs for entity recognition, pred-
icate recognition, and semantic role labeling.
Our weakly supervised training framework is indepen-
dent of how we deﬁne each loss term, as long as they are
a summation of costs over aligned nodes. For instance, if
we deﬁne the entity loss LE and predicate loss LP as mean
square errors of entity and predicate embeddings, and if we
deﬁne the role loss LR to be a binary cross entropy on all
attention scores, we can write:
LE(GO, GT , I) =
1
|Ie|
X
(i,j)∈Ie
EO
i −ET
j
2
2 ,
(10)
LP (GO, GT , I) =
1
|Ip|
X
(k,l)∈Ip
P O
k −P T
l
2
2 ,
(11)
LR(GO, GT , I) = 1
nr
nr
X
r=1
Lr,
(12)
where for role r,
Lr = 1
|I|
X
(i,j)∈Ie
X
(k,l)∈Ip
X
 AO
r [k, i], AT
r [l, j]

,
(13)
where |I| = |Ie||Ip|, and
X(p, q) = −q log p −(1 −q) log(1 −p).
(14)
Since LR is in a different scale than LE and LP , we use a
hyperparameter λ to balance its signiﬁcance in Eq. (9).
The main challenge of weakly supervised learning is that
the alignment I is not known, and thus our training involves
the following nested optimization:
φ∗= argmin
φ
E

min
I L(GO, GT , I)

,
(15)
where φ is the collection of model parameters that lead
to GO, and the expectation is estimated by averaging over
minibatches sampled from training data. Note that the inner
optimization is subject to the constraints in Eq. (8). Inspired
by the EM algorithm [25], we device an alternating opti-
mization approach: We use the Adam Optimizer [16] for
the outer optimization, and propose an iterative alignment
algorithm to solve the inner optimization in the following.
There are no efﬁcient exact algorithms for solving the
inner optimization in Eq. (15). Hence, we propose an iter-
ative algorithm to approximate the optimal alignment. We
show that given an entity alignment Ie, it is possible to ﬁnd
the optimal predicate alignment Ip in polynomial time, and
similarly from Ip to Ie. Accordingly, we perform those
two steps iteratively in a coordinate-descent fashion, which
is guaranteed to converge to a local optima.
Supposing Ie is given, we intend to ﬁnd Ip that mini-
mizes L. Since LE is constant with respect of Ip, the prob-
lem reduces to minimizing LP +λLR, which can be written:
LP + λLR =
1
|Ip|
X
(k,l)∈Ip
W P
kl,
(16)
3740
Method
Supervision
SGGEN
PHRDET
R@50
R@100
R@50
R@100
VtransE-MIL [50]
Weak
0.7
0.9
1.5
2.0
PPR-FCN [50]
1.5
1.9
2.4
3.2
VSPNET w/o iterative alignment
Weak
1.3
1.6
8.0
10.2
VSPNET w/ fewer alignment steps
1.8
2.0
9.9
11.9
VSPNET w/o three-stage MP
2.4
2.8
16.7
19.8
VSPNET w/o role-driven MP
2.5
2.9
15.7
18.7
VSPNET w/ fewer MP steps
2.5
2.8
15.5
18.3
VSPNET (Ours)
3.1
3.5
17.6
20.4
VtransE [50]
Full
5.5
6.0
9.5
10.4
S-PPR-FCN [50]
6.0
6.9
10.6
11.1
VSPNET (Ours)
8.9
9.9
24.0
27.8
Table 1. Results on VG preprocessed by [50]. All numbers are in percentage and baselines were borrowed from [50]
where W P is a pairwise cost function between output and
target predicate nodes, measuring not only their semantic
embedding distance, but also the discrepancy of their con-
nectivity in graph. More speciﬁcally:
W P
kl ≜
P O
k −P T
l
2
2 +
λ
nr|Ie|
X
(i,j)∈Ie
nr
X
r=1
X
 AO
r [k, i], AT
r [l, j]

.
(17)
Note that the optimization of Eq. (16) is subject to Eq. (8),
which makes |Ip| a constant. Hence, this problem is equiv-
alent to maximum bipartite matching with fully connected
cost function W P , which can be solved in polynomial time
using the Kuhn-Munkres algorithm [26].
Similarly, given Ip, we can solve for Ie, and repeat alter-
nation. Every step leads to a lower or equal loss since either
LP + LR is minimized while LE is ﬁxed, or LE + LR is
minimized while LP is ﬁxed. Since L cannot become nega-
tive, these iterations must converge. We have observed that
the convergence value of L is not sensitive to whether we
start by initializing Ie or Ip, nor does it depend on the ini-
tialization value. In our experiments we initialize Ip to an
empty set and proceed with updating Ie. We denote by v
the number of iterations used for this alignment procedure.
Our method can be naturally extended to the fully su-
pervised setting by adding a term in Eq. 10, to maximize
the overlap between the aligned pairs of bounding boxes.
Speciﬁcally, we redeﬁne LE as:
Lsup
E (GO, GT , I) =
1
|Ie|
X
(i,j)∈Ie
 EO
i −ET
j
2
2
−λB log
 IoU[BO
i −BT
j ] + ǫ

,
(18)
where BO and BT are the set of output and ground truth
bounding boxes respectively, and λB and ǫ are hyper-
parameters selected by cross-validation. Note that the gra-
dient of the added term with respect to model parameters is
zero, and hence this only affects alignment.
4. Experiments
We apply our framework on the Visual Genome (VG)
dataset [17] for the task of scene graph generation, and
compare to both weakly and fully supervised baselines.
Through quantitative analysis, we show that VSPNET sig-
niﬁcantly outperforms the weakly and fully supervised state
of the art, while being several times faster than existing
methods. Furthermore, ablation experiments show the con-
tribution of each proposed module, namely iterative align-
ment, role-driven attention, and three-stage message aggre-
gation.
We ﬁnally provide qualitative evidence that our
method is able to produce VSP graphs, which are beyond
the expressive capacity of conventional scene graphs.
4.1. Implementation details
We use an off-the-shelve Faster R-CNN [33] pretrained
on the Open Images dataset [18] to extract object proposals
that are needed as inputs to VSPNET. We extract proposal
coordinates and features once for all images, and keep them
ﬁxed while training and evaluating our model. We do not
stack VSPNET on top of Faster R-CNN and do not ﬁne-
tune Faster R-CNN during training. We use the original
implementation of GRU [6] with 1024-dimensional states
(de and dp). The initialization heads ea and eb, the attention
heads f e
r and f p
r , and the message passing heads, ge→, ge
r,
gp←, gp→, gp
r, and ge←, are all fully connected networks
with two 1024-dimensional layers. The embedding predic-
tion heads he and hp are each single-layer networks that
map 1024-D GRU states to the 300-D embedding space. All
fully connected networks use leaky ReLU activation func-
tions [11]. Through cross-validation, we set λ = 10, u = 3,
and v = 3. We use GloVe embeddings [29] to represent
each class, and we ﬁne-tune it during training.
3741
Method
Supervision
SGGEN
SGCLS
PREDCLS
Time
R@50
R@100
R@50
R@100
R@50
R@100
IMP [40]
Full
1.64
3.4
4.2
21.7
24.4
44.7
53.1
MSDN [20]
3.56
7.7
10.5
19.3
21.8
63.1
66.4
MotifNet [48]
2.07
6.9
9.1
23.8
27.2
41.8
48.8
Assoc. Emb. [27]
1.19
9.7
11.3
26.5
30.0
68.0
76.2
Graph R-CNN [41]
0.83
11.4
13.7
29.6
31.6
54.2
59.1
VSPNET (Ours)
0.11
12.6
14.2
31.5
34.1
67.4
73.7
VSPNET (Ours)
Weak
0.11
4.7
5.4
30.5
32.7
57.7
62.4
Table 2. Results on VG [40]. Recall numbers (%) are from [41]. Inference time is in seconds per image, partially borrowed from [19].
The number of predicate nodes np is an important
choice. Having more predicate nodes will increase recall
but also inference time. Since SGG methods are conven-
tionally evaluated at 100 and 50 predicates, we set np =
100. To output only 50 predicates, we rank the predicate
nodes with respect to their conﬁdence, which is deﬁned
as the product of three classiﬁcation conﬁdence scores, for
subject, object and predicate. To report inference time in
Table 2, we compute the average inference time per im-
age on the test set, using identical settings for all methods
(NVIDIA TITAN X, 200 proposals, VGG backbone). The
time includes the extraction of proposals and their features.
4.2. Task deﬁnition
The Visual Genome dataset consists of 108,077 images
with manual annotation of objects and relationships, with
open-vocabulary classes. [40] and [50] preprocess the an-
notated objects and relationships to produce scene graphs
with a ﬁxed vocabulary. [40] keeps 150 most frequent en-
tity and 50 most frequent predicate classes, while [50] cuts
at 200 and 100 respectively. We perform two sets of exper-
iments, based on both [40] and [50], to be able to compare
to the performances reported by each paper separately. We
follow their preprocessing, data splits, and evaluation proto-
col, but we assume bounding boxes are not available during
weakly supervised training.
The main evaluation metric dubbed SGGEN, measures
the accuracy of subject-predicate-object triplets.
A detected triplet is considered correct if the predicted class
for subject, object, and predicate are all correct, and the sub-
ject and object bounding boxes have an Intersection over
Union (IoU) of at least 0.5 with ground truth. To evalu-
ate, the top K triplets predicted by the model are matched
to ground truth triplets. The number of correctly matched
triplets is divided by the total number of triplets in the
ground truth to compute recall at K. This value is aver-
aged over all images leading to R@50 and R@100. Since
SGGEN is highly affected by the quality of object propos-
als. we also report SGCLS, which assumes ground truth
bounding boxes are given at test time, instead of proposals.
Another metric, PREDCLS assumes ground truth bounding
are given, and true object classes are given too. [50] also
evaluates using PHRDET, which stands for Phrase Detec-
tion. This metric is similar to SGGEN, with the difference
that instead of evaluating the bounding box of subject and
object separately, the goal is to predict a union bounding
box enclosing both the object and subject. To this end, for
each detected triplet, we get the union box of its subject
and object, and match with that of ground truth triplets at
IoU ≥0.5.
4.3. Results
Table 1 shows our quantitative results on VG compared
to VtransE [49] and PPR-FCN [50], in both Weakly Super-
vised (WS) and Fully Supervised (FS) settings, following
the evaluation settings of [50]. Our VSPNET achieves the
best WS performance, with SGGEN performance more than
two times higher and PHRDET more than six times higher
than the state of the art. Moreover, the FS extension of our
method outperforms the FS variants of those baselines sig-
niﬁcantly. On the PHRDET measure, even our WS method
outperforms all FS baselines. Furthermore, we provide ab-
lative variants of our method as extra rows in Table 1, to
study the effect of each proposed component in isolation.
In VSPNET w/o iterative alignment, we replace the
proposed alignment algorithm with a heuristic baseline,
where we align entities by minimizing LE and indepen-
dently align predicates to minimize LP , in a one-step pro-
cess. Our alignment algorithm leads to more than twice the
performance of this ablation. We make a similar observa-
tion by reducing the number of alignment steps v from 3 to
1, denoted as VSPNET w/ fewer alignment steps. Fur-
thermore, in VSPNET w/o three-stage MP, we replace
the proposed three-stage message aggregation framework
with a conventional average pooling, that computes the sum
of all messages after multiplying by the attention weights.
In VSPNET w/o role-driven MP, we keep the three-stage
message aggregation, but remove the role-driven attention,
and replace Ar(t) with a constant, uniformly distributed at-
tention. Finally, in VSPNET w/ fewer MP steps, we only
reduce the number of MP steps, u, from 3 to 1. All these
three ablations lead to inferior performance, proving the ef-
3742
fectiveness of our proposed message passing framework.
To compare to more recent methods, we also perform
experiments on the original version of VG that was used by
[40], and follow the evaluation protocol of [41]. Table 2
compares VSPNET to all the numbers reported by [41].
The FS version of our method outperforms all state-of-the-
art methods in all metrics, except slightly outperformed by
Assoc. Emb. [27] in PREDCLS only. In addition to superior
accuracy, our method is several times faster than all meth-
ods. It is also 5 times faster than Factorizable Net [19],
which is the fastest SGG method (0.55 seconds per image),
although not shown in Table 2, because their reported recall
is computed differently than ours.
Furthermore, our WS method shows competitive perfor-
mance and even outperforms some FS methods. Although
there is a performance drop from FS to WS, that is mainly
due to the difﬁculty of object localization in the WS setting.
In SGCLS, it achieves a performance very close to FS VSP-
NET, and outperforms all other FS baselines. This suggests
that if some day we have access to very accurate proposals,
our WS model would perform as accurately as FS methods.
Note that although SGCLS provides ground truth bounding
boxes, the WS model only treats them as input proposals,
and is still trained with unlocalized ground truth and un-
known alignment. Also note that all baselines in Table 2
train their Faster R-CNN on VG directly, using annotated
bounding boxes that we assume not available in WS set-
tings. Hence, we use an off-the-shelve Faster R-CNN that
is pretrained on another dataset in all our experiments. This
makes the comparison in Table 2 somewhat unfair, to our
disadvantage. Adopting the backbone used by the baselines
would improve our results, but violates WS constraints.
To illustrate the expressive power of our novel VSP for-
mulation, we train our model on the V-COCO dataset [10],
which annotates human actions in images, as well as ob-
jects and instruments of those actions. While this dataset
has been primarily used for HOI in the literature [32, 38],
we adopt it for VSP, by aggregating all action annotations
of each image into a single semantic graph, and connecting
them to the related objects through 3 types of semantic role:
subject, object, and instrument. The resulting VSP graphs
have unique properties that are not seen in scene graphs,
as shown in Figure 3, such as verbs with more than two
entities (e.g. person cutting cake with knife), and
verbs with only one entity (e.g. person smiling). After
training our model on the training set of V-COCO, we ap-
ply it on the test set and visualize output graphs in Figure 3.
Our method successfully generates VSP graphs containing
interactions that are not possible with any SGG method.
5. Conclusion
We proposed a method to parse an image into a semantic
graph that includes entities, predicates, and semantic roles.
Figure 3. Example VSP graphs generated by our method. Solid,
dashed, and dotted lines represent subject, object, and instrument.
Unlike prior works, our method does not require bounding
box annotations for training, and does not rely on exhaus-
tive processing of all object proposal pairs. Moreover, it
is able to extract more ﬂexible graphs where any number
of entities are involved in each predicate. To this end, we
proposed a generalized formulation of Scene Graph Gener-
ation (SGG) that disentangles predicates from entities, and
enables sub-quadratic performance. Based on that, we pro-
posed VSPNET, based on a dynamic, attention-based, bi-
partite message passing framework.
We also introduced
the ﬁrst graph-based weakly supervised learning framework
based on a novel graph alignment algorithm. We compared
our method to the state of the art through extensive experi-
ments, and achieved signiﬁcant performance improvements
in both weakly supervised and fully supervised settings,
while several times faster than every existing method.
Acknowledgements:
This work was supported by the U.S.
DARPA AIDA Program No. FA8750-18-2-0014. The views and
conclusions contained in this document are those of the authors
and should not be interpreted as representing the ofﬁcial poli-
cies, either expressed or implied, of the U.S. Government. The
U.S. Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints
for Government purposes notwithstanding any copyright notation
here on.
3743
References
[1] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Jan Chorowski, Dmitriy Serdyuk, Phile-
mon Brakel, and Yoshua Bengio. End-to-end attention-based
large vocabulary speech recognition. In 2016 IEEE interna-
tional conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing
(ICASSP), pages 4945–4949. IEEE, 2016.
[2] Laura Banarescu,
Claire Bonial,
Shu Cai,
Madalina
Georgescu, Kira Grifﬁtt, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin Knight,
Philipp Koehn, Martha Palmer, and Nathan Schneider. Ab-
stract meaning representation for sembanking. In Proceed-
ings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop and Interop-
erability with Discourse, pages 178–186, 2013.
[3] Hakan Bilen and Andrea Vedaldi. Weakly supervised deep
detection networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 2846–
2854, 2016.
[4] Yu-Wei Chao, Yunfan Liu, Xieyang Liu, Huayi Zeng, and
Jia Deng. Learning to detect human-object interactions. In
2018 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer
Vision (WACV), pages 381–389. IEEE, 2018.
[5] Xinlei Chen, Li-Jia Li, Li Fei-Fei, and Abhinav Gupta. It-
erative visual reasoning beyond convolutions. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 7239–7248, 2018.
[6] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart Van Merri¨enboer, Caglar Gulcehre,
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Fethi Bougares, Holger Schwenk, and
Yoshua Bengio. Learning phrase representations using rnn
encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1406.1078, 2014.
[7] Bo Dai, Yuqi Zhang, and Dahua Lin. Detecting visual re-
lationships with deep relational networks. In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 3076–3086, 2017.
[8] Thomas G Dietterich, Richard H Lathrop, and Tom´as
Lozano-P´erez. Solving the multiple instance problem with
axis-parallel rectangles. Artiﬁcial intelligence, 89(1-2):31–
71, 1997.
[9] Georgia Gkioxari, Ross Girshick, Piotr Doll´ar, and Kaiming
He. Detecting and recognizing human-object interactions.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 8359–8367, 2018.
[10] Saurabh Gupta and Jitendra Malik. Visual semantic role la-
beling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1505.04474, 2015.
[11] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun.
Delving deep into rectiﬁers: Surpassing human-level perfor-
mance on imagenet classiﬁcation.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE international conference on computer vision, pages
1026–1034, 2015.
[12] Drew Hudson and Christopher D Manning. Learning by ab-
straction: The neural state machine. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, pages 5901–5914, 2019.
[13] Seong Jae Hwang, Sathya N Ravi, Zirui Tao, Hyunwoo J
Kim, Maxwell D Collins, and Vikas Singh. Tensorize, fac-
torize and regularize: Robust visual relationship learning.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 1014–1023, 2018.
[14] Justin Johnson, Ranjay Krishna, Michael Stark, Li-Jia Li,
David Shamma, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-Fei. Image
retrieval using scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
3668–3678, 2015.
[15] Keizo Kato, Yin Li, and Abhinav Gupta.
Compositional
learning for human object interaction. In Proceedings of the
European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages
234–251, 2018.
[16] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for
stochastic optimization.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980,
2014.
[17] Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson,
Kenji Hata, Joshua Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalan-
tidis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, et al.
Visual genome:
Connecting language and vision using crowdsourced dense
image annotations. International Journal of Computer Vi-
sion, 123(1):32–73, 2017.
[18] Alina Kuznetsova, Hassan Rom, Neil Alldrin, Jasper Ui-
jlings, Ivan Krasin, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Shahab Kamali, Stefan
Popov, Matteo Malloci, Tom Duerig, et al. The open im-
ages dataset v4: Uniﬁed image classiﬁcation, object detec-
tion, and visual relationship detection at scale. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1811.00982, 2018.
[19] Yikang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Bolei Zhou, Jianping Shi, Chao
Zhang, and Xiaogang Wang. Factorizable net: an efﬁcient
subgraph-based framework for scene graph generation. In
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vi-
sion (ECCV), pages 335–351, 2018.
[20] Yikang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Bolei Zhou, Kun Wang, and Xi-
aogang Wang. Scene graph generation from objects, phrases
and region captions. In Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Computer Vision, pages 1261–1270,
2017.
[21] Xiaodan Liang, Lisa Lee, and Eric P Xing. Deep variation-
structured reinforcement learning for visual relationship and
attribute detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 848–857,
2017.
[22] Yong Liu, Ruiping Wang, Shiguang Shan, and Xilin Chen.
Structure inference net: object detection using scene-level
context and instance-level relationships.
In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 6985–6994, 2018.
[23] Cewu Lu, Ranjay Krishna, Michael Bernstein, and Li Fei-
Fei. Visual relationship detection with language priors. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 852–869.
Springer, 2016.
[24] Arun Mallya and Svetlana Lazebnik. Recurrent models for
situation recognition.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 455–463,
2017.
[25] Todd K Moon.
The expectation-maximization algorithm.
IEEE Signal processing magazine, 13(6):47–60, 1996.
[26] James Munkres. Algorithms for the assignment and trans-
portation problems. Journal of the society for industrial and
applied mathematics, 5(1):32–38, 1957.
3744
[27] Alejandro Newell and Jia Deng. Pixels to graphs by associa-
tive embedding. In Advances in neural information process-
ing systems, pages 2171–2180, 2017.
[28] Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Nianwen Xue. Semantic
role labeling. Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Tech-
nologies, 3(1):1–103, 2010.
[29] Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Man-
ning.
Glove: Global vectors for word representation.
In
Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing (EMNLP), pages 1532–1543,
2014.
[30] Julia Peyre, Josef Sivic, Ivan Laptev, and Cordelia Schmid.
Weakly-supervised learning of visual relations. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vi-
sion, pages 5179–5188, 2017.
[31] Bryan A Plummer, Arun Mallya, Christopher M Cervantes,
Julia Hockenmaier, and Svetlana Lazebnik.
Phrase local-
ization and visual relationship detection with comprehensive
image-language cues. In Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Computer Vision, pages 1928–1937,
2017.
[32] Siyuan Qi, Wenguan Wang, Baoxiong Jia, Jianbing Shen,
and Song-Chun Zhu. Learning human-object interactions by
graph parsing neural networks. In Proceedings of the Euro-
pean Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pages 401–
417, 2018.
[33] Shaoqing Ren, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, and Jian Sun.
Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection with region
proposal networks. In Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems, pages 91–99, 2015.
[34] Arpit Sharma, Nguyen H Vo, Somak Aditya, and Chitta
Baral.
Towards addressing the winograd schema chal-
lenge—building and using a semantic parser and a knowl-
edge hunting module. In Twenty-Fourth International Joint
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 2015.
[35] Jiaxin Shi, Hanwang Zhang, and Juanzi Li. Explainable and
explicit visual reasoning over scene graphs. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.01855, 2018.
[36] Zheng Shou, Hang Gao, Lei Zhang, Kazuyuki Miyazawa,
and Shih-Fu Chang.
Autoloc: Weakly-supervised tempo-
ral action localization in untrimmed videos. In Proceedings
of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV),
pages 154–171, 2018.
[37] David Wadden, Ulme Wennberg, Yi Luan, and Han-
naneh Hajishirzi.
Entity, relation, and event extraction
with contextualized span representations.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1909.03546, 2019.
[38] Bo Wan, Desen Zhou, Yongfei Liu, Rongjie Li, and Xuming
He. Pose-aware multi-level feature network for human ob-
ject interaction detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 9469–9478,
2019.
[39] Sanghyun Woo, Dahun Kim, Donghyeon Cho, and In So
Kweon. Linknet: Relational embedding for scene graph. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages
558–568, 2018.
[40] Danfei Xu, Yuke Zhu, Christopher B Choy, and Li Fei-Fei.
Scene graph generation by iterative message passing. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 5410–5419, 2017.
[41] Jianwei Yang, Jiasen Lu, Stefan Lee, Dhruv Batra, and Devi
Parikh.
Graph r-cnn for scene graph generation.
In Pro-
ceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision
(ECCV), pages 670–685, 2018.
[42] Xu Yang, Kaihua Tang, Hanwang Zhang, and Jianfei Cai.
Auto-encoding scene graphs for image captioning. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 10685–10694, 2019.
[43] Mark Yatskar, Vicente Ordonez, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Ali
Farhadi. Commonly uncommon: Semantic sparsity in situ-
ation recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 7196–
7205, 2017.
[44] Mark Yatskar, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Ali Farhadi. Situation
recognition: Visual semantic role labeling for image under-
standing. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5534–5542,
2016.
[45] Ruichi Yu, Ang Li, Vlad I Morariu, and Larry S Davis. Vi-
sual relationship detection with internal and external linguis-
tic knowledge distillation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 1974–1982,
2017.
[46] Yuan Yuan, Xiaodan Liang, Xiaolong Wang, Dit-Yan Ye-
ung, and Abhinav Gupta. Temporal dynamic graph lstm for
action-driven video object detection. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, pages
1801–1810, 2017.
[47] Rowan Zellers, Yonatan Bisk, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi.
From recognition to cognition: Visual commonsense reason-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.10830, 2018.
[48] Rowan Zellers, Mark Yatskar, Sam Thomson, and Yejin
Choi. Neural motifs: Scene graph parsing with global con-
text. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5831–5840, 2018.
[49] Hanwang Zhang, Zawlin Kyaw, Shih-Fu Chang, and Tat-
Seng Chua. Visual translation embedding network for visual
relation detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 5532–5540,
2017.
[50] Hanwang Zhang, Zawlin Kyaw, Jinyang Yu, and Shih-Fu
Chang. Ppr-fcn: weakly supervised visual relation detection
via parallel pairwise r-fcn. In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 4233–4241,
2017.
[51] Bohan Zhuang, Lingqiao Liu, Chunhua Shen, and Ian Reid.
Towards context-aware interaction recognition for visual re-
lationship detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 589–598,
2017.
3745
