
--- Page 1 ---
SceneGraphFusion: Incremental 3D Scene Graph Prediction
from RGB-D Sequences
Shun-Cheng Wu1
Johanna Wald1
Keisuke Tateno2
Nassir Navab1
Federico Tombari1,2
1Technische Universit┬©at M┬©unchen
2Google
shunchengwu.github.io/SceneGraphFusion
d)
wall
’¼éoor
cabinet
chair
table
door
window
bookshelf
counter
other furn.
chair
table
cabinet
’¼éoor
attached on
standing on
a)
b)
c)
Figure 1. We create a globally consistent 3D scene graph b) by fusing predictions of a graph neural network (GNN) from an incremental
geometric segmentation created from an RGB-D sequence a). Our method merges nodes on the same object instance and naturally grows
and improves over time when new segments and surfaces are discovered, see c). As a by-product, our method produces accurate panoptic
segmentation of large-scale 3D scans. The nodes represent the different object segments.
Abstract
Scene graphs are a compact and explicit representa-
tion successfully used in a variety of 2D scene understand-
ing tasks. This work proposes a method to incrementally
build up semantic scene graphs from a 3D environment
given a sequence of RGB-D frames. To this end, we ag-
gregate PointNet features from primitive scene components
by means of a graph neural network. We also propose a
novel attention mechanism well suited for partial and miss-
ing graph data present in such an incremental reconstruc-
tion scenario. Although our proposed method is designed
to run on submaps of the scene, we show it also transfers
to entire 3D scenes. Experiments show that our approach
outperforms 3D scene graph prediction methods by a large
margin and its accuracy is on par with other 3D semantic
and panoptic segmentation methods while running at 35Hz.
1. Introduction
High-level scene understanding is a fundamental task in
computer vision required for many applications in ’¼üelds
such as robotics and augmented or mixed reality. Boosted
by the availability of inexpensive depth sensors, real-time
dense SLAM algorithms [33, 21, 35, 56] and large scale
3D datasets [5, 53], the research focus has shifted from re-
constructing the 3D scene geometry to enhancing the 3D
maps with semantic information about scene components.
Several methods have deployed a neural network to pro-
cess a complete 3D scan of a scene [5, 10, 41, 39, 24,
18, 17, 16, 9].
However, these all require 3D geometry
as prior information and they typically operate in an of-
’¼éine fashion, i.e. without satisfying real-time requirements,
which are fundamental for many real-world applications.
Real-time scene understanding that incrementally built 3D
scans poses important challenges such as handling partial,
incomplete, and ambiguous scene geometry where object
shapes may change dramatically over time. Learning a ro-
bust 3D feature that can cope with this variability is dif’¼ücult.
Furthermore, fusing multiple, potentially contradictory net-
work predictions to ensure consistency in the global map, is
also challenging. Recently, in the image domain, semantic
scene graphs have been used to derive relationships among
scene entities [26, 57, 34, 59, 15]. Scene graphs demon-
strated to be a powerful abstract representation for scene
7515

--- Page 2 ---
understanding. Being compact and explicit, they are bene-
’¼ücial for complex tasks such as image captioning [58, 20],
generation [19], manipulation [7] or visual questioning and
answering [49]. For this reason, recent works have explored
scene graph prediction from entire 3D scans in an of’¼éine
manner [54, 1]. Furthermore, building up semantic graph
maps online is a major challenge, requiring not only to ef-
’¼üciently detect semantic instances in the scene but also to
robustly estimate predicates between them, while dealing
with partial and incomplete 3D geometry.
In this work, we propose a real-time method to incremen-
tally build, in parallel to 3D mapping, a globally consistent
semantic scene graph, as shown in Fig. 1. Our approach re-
lies on a geometric segmentation method [47] and a novel
inductive graph network, which handles missing edges and
nodes in partial 3D point clouds. Our scene nodes are ge-
ometric segments of primitive shapes. Their 3D features
are propagated in a graph network that aggregates features
of neighborhood segments. Our method predicts scene se-
mantics and identi’¼ües object instances by learning relation-
ships among clusters of over-segmented regions. Towards
this end, we propose to learn additional relationships, re-
ferred to as same part in an end-to-end manner.
The main contributions of this work can be summarized
as follows: (1) We propose the ’¼ürst online 3D scene graph
prediction, i.e. incrementally fusing predictions from cur-
rently observed sub-maps into a globally consistent seman-
tic graph model. (2) Due to a new relationship type, nodes
are merged into 3D instances, resembling panoptic segmen-
tation.(3) We introduce a novel attention method that can
handle partial and incomplete 3D data, as well as highly dy-
namic edges, which is required for incremental scene graph
prediction. Our experiments show that we outperform 3D
scene graph prediction and achieve on par performance on
3D semantic and instance segmentation benchmarks while
running in 35Hz.
2. Related Work
2.1. Semantic SLAM
Several 3D scene understanding methods leverage deep
learning to perform either semantic segmentation [5, 10,
41, 39, 18], or instance segmentation/object detection [17,
37, 24, 9] from the complete 3D volume or point cloud
of the scene. Conversely, incremental semantic SLAM ap-
proaches do not assume a full 3D scan to be available, in-
stead directly operate on the incoming frames of RGB(-
D) sequences [29, 50, 42]. Such methods simultaneously
carry out a 3D reconstruction of the scene, while extract-
ing the corresponding semantics of the currently observed
surface. To this end, some incremental methods transfer im-
age predictions from a convolutional neural network (CNN)
to 3D, passing the data from the image to the 3D recon-
struction [29].
[46] propose a monocular approach that
constructs the 3D geometry from a depth prediction, rather
than a depth image. These incremental approaches often re-
quire a sophisticated fusion and/or a regularization method
to deal with multiple, potentially contradictory, predictions,
and to handle spatial and temporal consistency [29, 31, 46].
Other approaches fuse the 2D image and 3D reconstruc-
tion [60]. These semantic SLAM methods such as Seman-
ticFusion [29], ProgressiveFusion [36] or FusionAware [60]
are able to reconstruct 3D semantic scene maps in real-time,
but are not able to differentiate between individual object
instances. Object-level SLAM approaches focus on object
instances while sometimes requiring prior knowledge of the
scene such as an object database or semantic class annota-
tions [44, 48, 28, 11, 14].
Segmentation techniques are often used to reduce data
complexity and meet the required runtime on limited re-
sources. Several methods [48, 25, 30, 55, 14] incorporate
the ef’¼ücient incremental segmentation method proposed
in [47] to perform online scene understanding.
Semantic SLAM methods achieve great performance in
computing a semantic or object-level representation but nei-
ther focus on semantic scene graphs nor on semantic rela-
tionships between object instances.
2.2. Scene Graphs for Images and 3D Data
Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have recently emerged
as a popular inference tool for many challenging tasks [51,
40, 27, 52, 3, 45].
In particular, GNNs have been pro-
posed to infer scene graphs from images [59, 40], where
scene entities are the nodes of the graph, e.g. object in-
stances. Scene graph prediction goes beyond instance seg-
mentation by adding relationships between instances. Al-
though scene graphs are adapted from computer graphics,
their semantic extension has become an important research
area in computer vision. Since the introduction of a large
scale 2D scene graph dataset [23], several graph prediction
methods have been proposed focusing on message passing
with recurrent neural networks [57], iterative statistical op-
timization [6] or methods to handle limited data [2, 8]. Fur-
thermore, recent datasets with 3D semantic scene graph an-
notations have been proposed [12, 1, 54], alongside with
3D graph estimation methods. [54] predict semantic scene
graphs from a ground truth class-agnostic segmentation of
the 3D scene. [12] use an object detector on a sequence of
images to construct 3D quadrics ŌĆō their object representa-
tion of choice. The geometric and visual features are then
processed with a recurrent neural network. [1] use mask
predictions and a multi-view regularization technique on
sampled images to compute relationships derived from de-
tected object instances. They construct a 3D scene graph of
a building that includes object semantics, rooms and cam-
eras, as well as the relationships between these entities. [43]
7516

--- Page 3 ---
d) Properties
e) Neighbor Graph
Input: a) RGB-D 
Images
b) Incremental Geometric 
Segmentation
c) Extracted Point Cloud with 
Segments as Nodes
Output:
h) Incremental 3D Scene Graph
table
sofa
bag
floor
f) Node and 
Edge Features
g) Graph / GNN FAT
cabinet
floor
bag
table
floor
Fuse
GNN
Figure 2. Overview of the proposed SceneGraphFusion framework. Our method takes a stream of RGB-D images a) as input to create an
incremental geometric segmentation b). Then, the properties of each segment and a neighbor graph between segments are constructed. The
properties d) and neighbor graph e) of the segments that have been updated in the current frame c) are used as the inputs to compute node
and edge features f) and to predict a 3D scene graph g). Finally, the predictions are h) fused back into a globally consistent 3D graph.
Node
X
X
X
X
X
O
X
O
O
O
O
O
A
Figure 3. A representation of our ef’¼ücient graph update strategy.
Given a network with a basic encoder (Encl=0) and two message
passing layers (GNNl=1, GNNl=2), by storing different layers of
features separately. When node A is updated, we can reuse the
lower-layer features from other nodes without recomputing them.
We visualize the operations needed at each node with color.
extended this model to include dynamic scene entities, e.g.
humans. Nevertheless, all of these methods work of’¼éine
and expect the reconstructed 3D scene as an input.
Similarly to [54], we predict graphs of semantic nature, but
in contrast to [54], our graph prediction does not require any
prior scene knowledge and is able to segment instances and
their semantic information, as well as their relationships, in
real-time, while the scene is being reconstructed.
3. Incremental 3D Scene Graph Framework
Fig. 2 illustrates the pipeline of our SceneGraphFusion
framework. Our system consists of two separate cores: a
reconstruction and segmentation pipeline adapted from [47]
(Sec. 3.1), and a scene graph prediction network (SPN)
(Sec. 4). Our system takes a sequence of RGB-D frames
with associated poses as input to reconstruct a segmented
map of the scene, while estimating a neighbor graph and
properties of each segment. Then, a subset of the neighbor
graph and the properties of the segments that have been re-
cently observed are fed into our graph network to predict
node and edge semantics. Finally, the predictions are fused
into the globally consistent 3D scene graph. To maintain
real-time performance of our system, we separate the scene
graph prediction process into a different thread. The 3D
scene graph is asynchronously predicted and fused from the
reconstruction pipeline. Our semantic scene graph G con-
sists of a set of tuples (V, E) with nodes V and edges E.
Nodes represent segments with their object categories, and
edges represent the semantic relationships (predicates) be-
tween nodes, such as standing on and attached to.
3.1. Scene Reconstruction with Property Building
An incremental and computationally ef’¼ücient method of
estimating instances is required to enable construction of a
scene graph in real-time. We use the incremental geometri-
cal segmentation method in [47] to build a globally consis-
tent segmentation map, and incorporate it with our online
property update and neighbor graph building.
Geometric Segmentation and Reconstruction.
Given
input RGB-D frames and associated poses, the incremen-
tal segmentation algorithm generates a global 3D segmen-
tation map, shown in Fig. 2b, by performing incremental
segmentation on top of a dense reconstruction algorithm.
The 3D segmentation map consists of a set of segments
S = {s1, . . . , sn}. Each segment stores a set of 3D points
Pi where each point has a 3D coordinate a normal and a
color. Our map is updated at every new frame, by adding
new segments and merging or removing old ones.
Segment Properties.
In addition to segment reconstruc-
tion, we compute segment properties (see Fig. 2d) to de-
scribe a segment shape, i.e. centroid pi 2 R3, standard de-
viation of the position of points Žāi 2 R3, size of the axis-
aligned bounding box bi = (bx, by, bz) 2 R3, maximum
length li = max (bx, by, bz) 2 R and bounding box volume
Ōī½i = bx┬Ęby ┬Ębz 2 R. Reconstructing the segments in this in-
cremental manner allows us to update the properties of each
node ef’¼üciently. These properties are updated by checking
every modi’¼ücation of the points in the segment.
7517

--- Page 4 ---
Neighbor Graph.
Additionally, we construct a neighbor
graph having nodes as segments and edges as the connec-
tion between the segments, as depicted in Fig. 2e. To ’¼ünd
the adjacent segments, we compute the distances between
all the combinations of the bounding box of the segments.
The segment pairs where the distance is less than a certain
threshold are added as edges (we use 0.5 meters as a prox-
imity threshold in our experiments).
3.2. Prediction with Graph Structure
Next, we feed the segments properties and the neighbor
graph to our graph network to predict the segment label and
predicate on each segment and edge, shown in Fig. 2f-g.
The detailed description of our graph network architecture
can be found in Sec. 4. Since our segment reconstruction
process is incremental, only those segments that are cur-
rently observed in the input frame are updated. Therefore,
we only feed a subset of the segments and the neighbor
graph which consists of the segments that have been up-
dated in recent frames, this improving scalability and ef’¼ü-
ciency. To identify the newly updated segments, we store
the segment size and timestamp whenever the segment is
fed into the network.
If the segment size changes more
than 10%, or the segment has not been updated for 60
frames, they are ’¼éagged and fed into the network. Segments
are continuously observed and outdated segments and their
neighbors are extracted and processed with our graph neu-
ral network. For the sake of ef’¼üciency we store all features
computed from our SPN in our neighbor graph. Accord-
ing to the message passing process in GNN [13], when a
lower-layer feature of a node is updated, only the higher-
layer features of this node, its direct neighbors, and their
edge features are affected. This allows us to re-use previ-
ously computed features, as shown in Fig. 3, and greatly
improve prediction ef’¼üciency and scalability.
3.3. Temporal Scene Graph Fusion
Finally, the predicted semantics of nodes and edges in
the neighbor graph are fused into a globally consistent se-
mantic scene graph, depicted in Fig. 2h. Due to the incre-
mental nature of our method, as described in Sec. 3.2, the
semantics of each segment and edge are predicted multi-
ple times, resulting in potentially contradictory outcomes.
To handle this, we apply a running average approach [4] to
fuse the predictions of the same segment or edge. For each
segment and edge in our neighbor graph, we store a weight
w and a probability ┬Ą for each class or predicate prediction.
Given a new prediction with probability ┬Ąt at time t, we
update the previously stored weight wtŌłÆ1 and probability
┬ĄtŌłÆ1 as
┬Ąt = ┬Ąt ┬Ę wt + ┬ĄtŌłÆ1 ┬Ę wtŌłÆ1
wt + wtŌłÆ1
,
(1)
wt = min
!
wmax, wt + wtŌłÆ1"
,
(2)
where wmax = 100 is the maximum weight value. Impor-
tantly, since our framework predicts semantics at segment
level, we are able to store and preserve the whole label prob-
ability distribution using a much smaller memory footprint
compared to point-level methods [29].
4. Scene Graph Prediction
The use of segments obtained by the geometric segmen-
tation method requires the design of a robust feature, since
the shape of each segment is usually incomplete and rela-
tively simple, and changes overtime during reconstruction.
The feature of each segment can be enhanced with neigh-
bor information by using a GNN. However, the number of
neighbors of each segment changes over time, posing a se-
rious challenge for the training process.
Dealing with dynamic nodes and edges in a GNN is
known as inductive learning.
Existing methods focus
mainly on how to spread attention across all the neigh-
bors [51, 52], or estimate the attention between nodes [3].
However, in either case, a missing edge still affects all the
aggregated messages. To deal with this problem, we pro-
pose a novel feature-wise-attention (FAT), that re-weights
individual latent features at each target node. By applying a
max function on this re-weighted embedding, this strategy
yields aggregated features that are less affected by missing
neighboring points.
4.1. Network Architecture
The network architecture of our framework is shown in
Fig. 2f-g (grey box). Our architecture is inspired from [54],
with modi’¼ücation of some major components. Given a) a
set of segments, b) the properties of each segment, and c) a
neighbor graph, our network outputs a semantic scene graph
by predicting class and predicate for each segment and edge
respectively.
Node Feature.
The point cloud Pi of each segment si
is encoded with a PointNet [38] fp (┬Ę) into a latent fea-
ture that represents the primitive shape of each segment.
We concatenate the spatial invariant properties described in
Sec. 3.1, i.e. standard deviation Žāi, log of bounding box size
bi, length li, and volume Ōī½i, with fp(Pi) to handle the scale
insensitive limitation caused by normalization of the input
points on the unit sphere such that
vi = [fp (Pi) , Žāi, ln (bi), ln (Ōī½i) ln (li)],
(3)
where [┬Ę] denotes a concatenation function.
7518

--- Page 5 ---
Edge Feature.
The visual features of the edges are com-
puted with the properties of the connected segments. Given
an edge between a source node i and a target node j where
j 6= i, the edge visual feature eij is computed such that
rij = [pi ŌłÆpj, Žāi ŌłÆŽāj, bi ŌłÆbj, ln
ŌćŻ
li
lj
Ōīś
, ln
ŌćŻ
Ōī½i
Ōī½j
Ōīś
], (4)
eij = gs (rij) ,
(5)
where gs (┬Ę) is a multi-layer perception (MLP) projecting
the paired segment properties into a latent space.
GNN Feature.
After the initial feature embedding on
nodes and edges, we propagate the features using a GNN
with 2 message passing layers to enhance the features by
enclosing the neighborhood information. Our GNN updates
both node and edge features in each message passing layer
`. In each layer, the node and v`
i and edge features e`
ij are
updated as follows:
v`+1
i
= gv
Ō£ō
[v`
i, max
jŌłłN (i)
!
FAN
!
v`
i, e`
ij, v`
j
""
]
ŌŚå
,
(6)
e`+1
ij
= ge
!
[v`
i, e`
ij, v`
j]
"
,
(7)
where gv (┬Ę) and ge (┬Ę) are MLPs, N (i) is the set of neigh-
bors indices of node i, and FAN(┬Ę) is the proposed feature-
wise attention network, which is detailed in Sec. 4.2.
Class Prediction and Losses.
Finally, the node class and
the edge predicate are predicted by means of two MLP clas-
si’¼üers. Similarly to [54], our network can be trained end-to-
end with a joint cross entropy loss, for both, object Lobj and
predicates Lpred.
4.2. Feature-wise Attention
Our feature-wise attention (FAT) module takes as input
a query Q of dimensions dq and targets T of dimensions
dŌī¦. It estimates a weight distribution of dimensions dŌī¦by
using a MLP ga (┬Ę) with a softmax operation to normalize
and distribute the weight. Then, the attention is calculated
by element-wise multiplication of the weight matrix and the
target T,
FAT(Q, T) = softmax (ga(Q)) ŌŖÖT,
(8)
where ŌŖÖdenotes element-wise multiplication.
The use of softmax across the entire target dimension dŌī¦
gives us a single weight matrix across all feature dimen-
sions.
We employ a multi-head approach as in [51, 45]
to allow a more ’¼éexible attention distribution. The input
feature dimension of Q and T are divided into h heads
Q = [q1, . . . , qh] and T = [Žä1, . . . , Žäh] with qi 2 Rdq/h
and Žäi 2 RdŽä /h. For each head, the same attention func-
tion as in equation (8) is applied, then the values from each
ground truth
instance segmentation
same part relationship of 
geometric segmentation
Figure 4. The same part relationship is generated between the
segments corresponding to the same object instance.
head are concatenated back to the dimensions dŌī¦to obtain
the multi-head attention:
MFAT (Q, T) =
Ōćź
FAT(qi, Žäi)
Ōćżh
i=1.
(9)
Unlike scaled dot-product attention [51], our approach does
not distribute across edges.
Instead, it learns to spread
the attention across the feature dimensions of each target
node. Towards this end, we design a feature-wise attention
network (FAN). Given a source node feature vi, an edge
feature eij, and a target node feature vj, we compute the
weighted message as
FAN (vi, eij, vj) =
MFAT ([╦ågq (vi) , ╦åge (eij)] , ╦ågŌī¦(vj)) ,
(10)
where ╦ågq (┬Ę) , ╦åge (┬Ę) , ╦ågŌī¦(┬Ę) are single layer perceptrons to
map vi, eij, vj to dimensions dq
2 , dq
2 , dŌī¦respectively.
5. Data Generation
We introduce a same part relationship to allow our
network to cluster segments from the same object, enabling
instance-level object segmentation on the over-segmented
map. We generate training and testing data using the esti-
mated segmentation and the ground truth instance annota-
tions. Given a scene segmented by a geometrical segmen-
tation method and its corresponding ground truth provided
as object instance annotations, we ’¼ünd the best match be-
tween each estimated segment and the ground truth objects
via nearest neighbor search. In particular, the best match
is obtained by maximizing the area of intersection between
the given segment and the ground truth objects. We reject
matches where the area of intersection is less than 50% of
the segment surface. In addition, we consider a valid match
only if its corresponding segment does not cover any other
ground truth objects by more than 10% of their area. In the
case of multiple segments corresponding to the same object
instance, we add the same part relationship between all
of them, as shown in Fig. 4. Finally, if ground truth rela-
tionships exist on that object instance, they are inherited by
all the segments.
7519

--- Page 6 ---
Relationship
Object
Predicate
R@50 R@100 R@5 R@10
R@3
R@5
Baseline [54]
0.39
0.45
0.66
0.77
0.62
0.88
3DSSG [54]
0.40
0.66
0.68
0.78
0.89
0.93
Ours
0.85
0.87
0.70
0.80
0.97
0.99
Table 1. Evaluation of the scene graph prediction task on
3RScan/3DSSG [54] with 160 objects and 26 predicate classes.
The experiments were conducted on the complete 3D data.
6. Evaluation
In Sec. 6.1 we evaluate our scene graph prediction on
3DSSG [54]. The performance of our method is reported on
full scenes given ground truth instances and second with ge-
ometric segments. We then show how relationships/graphs
help with object prediction. In Sec. 6.2 we focus on the by-
product of our method, panoptic segmentation by reporting
segmentation scores on ScanNet [5]. Finally, in Sec. 6.3 we
provide a runtime analysis of our method compared to other
incremental semantic segmentation approaches.
6.1. Semantic Scene Graph Prediction
Following the evaluation scheme in [54], we separately
report relationship, object, and predicate prediction accu-
racy with a top-n evaluation metric. Following [59], the re-
lationship score is the multiplication of the object, subject,
and predicate probability. Object and predicate metrics are
calculated directly with the respective classi’¼ücation scores.
Ground Truth Instances.
In Tbl. 1 we report the 3D
scene graph prediction accuracy independently from the
segmentation quality. The evaluation was conducted on the
full 3D scene with the class-agnostic ground truth segmen-
tation, as carried out in [54]. We followed the data split pro-
posed in 3DSSG with 160 object classes and 26 different re-
lationships. Our method outperforms [54] with a signi’¼ücant
margin of +0.45 / +0.21 (R@50 / R@100) for relationship
prediction due to small improvements in predicate and ob-
ject classi’¼ücation. Note that our method can run of’¼éine on
the pre-computed 3D data ŌĆō as done here ŌĆō but is also able
to handle partial and incomplete shapes in an incremental
online setup which is analyzed in following paragraph.
Geometric Segments.
In Tbl. 2 we compare the perfor-
mance of incremental
6ŌāØ- 7ŌāØand full scene graph predic-
tion
5ŌāØbased on our geometric segmentation.
6ŌāØis slightly
worse than
5ŌāØbut generates predictions on the ’¼éy. Our pro-
posed fusion
7ŌāØimproves the performance further. Tbl. 2
additionally shows that we outperform 3DSSG [54] with a
small margin without any attention method and with a large
margin when using our proposed feature-wise attention,
FAT
5ŌāØ. FAT
5ŌāØalso outperforms other attention mech-
anisms GAT [52]
3ŌāØand SDPA [51]
4ŌāØfor 3D semantic
Relationship
Object
Predicate
Method (Attention)
R@1 R@3 R@1 R@3 R@1 R@2
1ŌāØ3DSSG (none)
(f) 0.38
0.59
0.61 0.85 0.83 0.98
2ŌāØOurs (none)
(f) 0.41
0.62
0.62 0.88 0.84 0.98
3ŌāØOurs (GAT)
(f) 0.12
0.22
0.25 0.64 0.85 0.98
4ŌāØOurs (SDPA)
(f) 0.39
0.62
0.62 0.87 0.85 0.98
5ŌāØOurs (FAT)
(f) 0.55
0.78
0.75 0.93 0.86 0.98
6ŌāØOurs (FAT)
(i) 0.51
0.67
0.78 0.94 0.77 0.98
7ŌāØOurs Fusion (FAT) (i) 0.52
0.70
0.79 0.94 0.78 0.98
Table 2. Evaluation of the semantic scene graph prediction on ge-
ometric segments of 3RScan/3DSSG [54] with 20 objects and 8
predicate classes. (f) indicates a prediction on the full 3D scene
while (i) is the incremental result from the RGB-D sequence.
Relationship
Object
Predicate
R@1 R@3
R@1 R@3
R@1 R@2
Ours without Lpred
0.26
0.36
0.62
0.87
0.59
0.75
Ours with Lpred
0.55
0.78
0.75
0.93
0.86
0.98
Table 3. Ablation Study: Comparison of training with and without
predicate loss Lpred on 3RScan/3DSSG [54] with 20 object and
8 predicate classes. Note that the comparison is based on graphs
computed from the full 3D scene (f).
scene graph prediction. The input of the methods is either
the full 3D scene
1ŌāØ- 6ŌāØ, processed of’¼éine (f) or a stream
of RGB-D images processed incrementally (i),
6ŌāØ,
7ŌāØ. For
these experiments, we ’¼ürst acquired the geometric segmen-
tation [46] from the RGB-D sequences of 3RScan [53]. The
’¼ünal training data was generated with the pipeline described
in Sec. 5. We trained the networks with 20 NYUv2 [32]
object classes used on the ScanNet [5] benchmark. Fur-
thermore, only support predicates are used and relationships
with too few occurrences are ignored. This leads to 8 pred-
icates, including the same part relationship which we
added in the data generation process. More details on the
training setup and chosen hyper-parameters used in this ex-
periment can be found in the supplementary material. A
qualitative result of our graph prediction is shown in Fig. 5,
more examples can also be found in the supplementary.
Predicate In’¼éuence on Object Classi’¼ücation.
To verify
if learning inter-instance relationship improves object clas-
si’¼ücation, we train our network without the predicate loss.
Tbl. 3 shows that object classi’¼ücation indeed bene’¼üts from
joint relationship prediction.
6.2. 3D Panoptic/Semantic Segmentation
To evaluate the quality of the semantic/panoptic segmen-
tation of our method, we trained the network with Scan-
Net [5]. We follow the ScanNet benchmark and evaluate
with the IoU metric. Since InSeg [47] reconstructs and seg-
ments the scene with a different reconstruction algorithm
and excludes small and unstable geometric segments, some
7520

--- Page 7 ---
Floor
Table
attached to
Sofa
Chair
standing 
on
standing 
on
a) Geometric Segmentation
b) Panoptic Segmentation
standing 
on
Wall
Figure 5. Qualitative evaluation of our incremental graph prediction. Node (circle) colors represent geometric segments shown on the left,
the corresponding predicted semantics (panoptic segmentation) is visualized in the center, corresponding to the boxes in the right. For
visualization purposes, we only show the biggest segments and ’¼ülter out small ones.
Panoptic Segmentation
Semantic Segmentation
GT
Ours
GT
Ours
GT
Ours
Wall
Floor
Cabinet
Bed
Chair
Sofa
Table
Door
Window
Bookshelf
Picture
Counter
Desk
Curtain
Toilet
Sink
Bathtub
Other Furniture
Refrigerator
Shower Curtain
Figure 6. Qualitative semantic and panoptic segmentation results of SceneGraphFusion. Note that for 3D panoptic segmentation (top row),
random colors are used for object instances, while walls are
and the ’¼éoor is
.
points might be missing in our 3D map. When evaluating,
we address this issue by either a) mapping the points in our
reconstruction to the nearest neighbor (NN) of the ScanNet
ground truth 3D model or b) ignoring points where no cor-
responding 3D geometry was reconstructed.
3D Semantic Segmentation.
In Tbl. 5, we compare our
method against other incremental semantic segmentation
methods, speci’¼ücally SemanticFusion [29], ProgressiveFu-
sion [36] and FusionAware [60] using the mean average pre-
cision (mAP). Our method has the second best mAP while
running at 35Hz on a CPU, as detailed in Sec. 6.3 and the
supplementary material. Qualitative results of our semantic
segmentation are shown in the bottom row of Fig. 6.
3D Panoptic Segmentation.
To evaluate panoptic seg-
mentation we use the metrics proposed in [22], namely
panoptic quality (PQ), segmentation quality (SQ), and
recognition quality (RQ). In Tbl. 4 we compare our method
against PanopticFusion [31]. Due to the missing scene ge-
ometry on which our approach relies, PanopticFusion out-
performs our method with respect to the computed RQ.
Nevertheless, SQ and PQ are on par or slightly worse. A
comparison of only valid scene regions ŌĆō by skipping un-
reconstructed parts ŌĆō often results in a better performance.
We provide an ablation study in Tbl. 6 to validate the effec-
tiveness of the same part relationship and our proposed
fusion mechanism. Finally, the qualitative results of our
panoptic segmentation are shown in the top row of Fig. 6.
7521

--- Page 8 ---
Metric
All
Things
Stuff
PanopticFusion [31]
PQ
33.5
30.8
58.4
Ours (NN mapping)
PQ
31.5
30.2
43.4
Ours (skipped missing)
PQ
36.3
34.7
51.0
PanopticFusion [31]
SQ
73.0
73.3
70.7
Ours (NN mapping)
SQ
72.9
73.0
72.6
Ours (skipped missing)
SQ
76.1
75.9
77.9
PanopticFusion [31]
RQ
45.3
41.3
80.9
Ours (NN mapping)
RQ
42.2
40.3
59.3
Ours (skipped missing)
RQ
46.8
44.8
64.7
Table 4. 3D panoptic segmentation results on the ScanNet v2 open
test set. We report the numbers of PanopticFusion [31] and our
fusion method either by a NN mapping or by skipping those miss-
ing regions. Our (NN mapping) outperforms PanopticFusion in 7
classes, more information can be found in the supplementary ma-
terial. Note that Our (skipped missing) is not considered when
highlighting the best score since its not directly comparable.
Hardware
Runtime [Hz] mAP
SemanticFusion [29]
GPU + CPU
25
51.8
ProgressiveFusion [36]
GPU + CPU
10 ŌĆō 15
56.6
Fusionaware [60]
-
10
76.4
Ours
CPU
35
63.7
Table 5. Comparison of incremental semantic segmentation meth-
ods on the open test set of ScanNet [5]. Runtime have been taken
from the respective papers with potentially different hardware se-
tups, therefore not directly comparable.
PQ
SQ
RQ
1ŌāØOurs without Fusion
35.4
76.3
35.4
2ŌāØOurs without same part
10.9
59.1
16.0
3ŌāØOurs
36.3
76.1
46.8
Table 6. Ablation study: Analysis of the effect of our fusion mech-
anism and the same part relationship on the panoptic segmen-
tation task evaluated on ScanNet [5]. PQ stands for panoptic, SQ
for segmentation, and RQ for recognition quality.
Robustness against Missing Information.
In this ex-
periment, we evaluate the robustness of different atten-
tion methods against noisy data in form of missing edges.
We train our network without attention, using GAT [52],
SDPA [51], and our proposed FAT. The experimental setup
is shared with Tbl. 2. In Tbl. 7 we compare the performance
of the different attention methods on the full scene (f) and
all edges (@1.0, left column) and with a random edge drop
of 50% (@0.5, right column), see Tbl. 7.
The reference metric is the intersection over union (IoU).
Our proposed attention mechanism, FAT, consistently out-
performs the other approaches in full-edge and drop-edge
scenarios. For the sake of space, a more detailed per-class
avg. IoU (@1.0)
avg. IoU (@0.5)
Ours w/o attention
33.5
29.5
Ours SDPA [51]
33.0
29.7
Ours GAT [52]
11.5
12.5
Ours FAT
49.3
41.9
Table 7. Ablation study: Segment classi’¼ücation of InSeg [47] on
3RScan [53] reporting avg. IoU on segment-level. The complete
per-class evaluation can be found in the supplementary material.
Segmentation Node
Edge
GNN
Mean [ms]
28
8
17
108
Table 8. Runtime [ms] of the different components of our method.
evaluation is available in the supplementary, interestingly
showing that some classes rely on the messages from neigh-
bors more than others such as e.g. bathtub, shower curtain,
and windows.
6.3. Runtime Analysis
We measured the runtime of our system on the ScanNet
sequence scene0645 01. Our machine is equipped with
an Intel Core i7-8700 CPU 3.2GHz CPU with 12 threads.
Notably, our method only uses 2 threads: one for the scene
reconstruction and the other one for 3D scene graph predic-
tion. The scene reconstruction requires 28 ms on average
while the graph prediction sums up to 133ms running the
GNN and fusing the results.
7. Conclusion
In this work, we presented SceneGraphFusion, a 3D
scene graph method that incrementally fuses partial graph
predictions from a geometric segmentation into a globally
consistent semantic map. Our network outperforms other
3D scene graph prediction methods; FAT works better than
any other attention mechanism in handling missing graph
information and the semantic/panoptic segmentation ŌĆō the
by-product of our method ŌĆō achieves performance on par
with other incremental methods while running in 35Hz.
Due to this ef’¼üciency, incremental semantic scene graphs
could be bene’¼ücial in future work, when retrieving camera
poses or detecting loop-closures in a SLAM framework.
Acknowledgment
The authors thank Anees B. Kazi and Georam Vivar for
fruitfull discussions. This work is supported by the German
Research Foundation (DFG, project number 407378162)
and the Bavarian State Ministry of Education, Science and
the Arts in the framework of the Centre Digitisation Bavaria
(ZD.B).
7522

--- Page 9 ---
References
[1] Iro Armeni, Zhi-Yang He, JunYoung Gwak, Amir R Zamir,
Martin Fischer, Jitendra Malik, and Silvio Savarese.
3D
SceneGgraph: A Structure for Uni’¼üed Semantics, 3D Space,
and Camera. In IEEE International Conference Computer
Vision (ICCV), 2019. 2
[2] Vincent S. Chen, Paroma Varma, Ranjay Krishna, Michael
Bernstein, Christopher Re, and Li Fei-Fei. Scene Graph Pre-
diction With Limited Labels. In IEEE International Confer-
ence Computer Vision (ICCV), October 2019. 2
[3] Luca Cosmo, Anees Kazi, Seyed-Ahmad Ahmadi, Nassir
Navab, and Michael Bronstein. Latent-Graph Learning for
Disease Prediction. In International Conference Medical Im-
age Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention (MIC-
CAI). Springer, 2020. 2, 4
[4] Brian Curless and Marc Levoy. A Volumetric Method for
Building Complex Models from Range Images.
In Pro-
ceedings Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive
Techniques, 1996. 4
[5] Angela Dai, Angel Xuan Chang, Manolis Savva, Maciej
Halber, Tom Funkhouser, and Matthias Nie├¤ner. ScanNet:
Richly-annotated 3D Reconstructions of Indoor Scenes. In
IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2017. 1, 2, 6, 8
[6] Bo Dai, Yuqi Zhang, and D. Lin. Detecting Visual Rela-
tionships with Deep Relational Networks. IEEE Conference
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2017. 2
[7] Helisa Dhamo, Azade Farshad, Iro Laina, Nassir Navab,
Gregory D Hager, Federico Tombari, and Christian Rup-
precht. Semantic Image Manipulation Using Scene Graphs.
In IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR), 2020. 2
[8] Apoorva Dornadula, Austin Narcomey, Ranjay Krishna,
Michael Bernstein, and Fei-Fei Li. Visual Relationships as
Functions: Enabling Few-Shot Scene Graph Prediction. In
IEEE International Conference Computer Vision Workshops
(ICCVW), 2019. 2
[9] Francis Engelmann, Martin Bokeloh, Alireza Fathi, Bas-
tian Leibe, and Matthias Nie├¤ner. 3D-MPA: Multi Proposal
Aggregation for 3D Semantic Instance Segmentation.
In
IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2020. 1, 2
[10] Francis Engelmann, Theodora Kontogianni, Alexander Her-
mans, and Bastian Leibe. Exploring Spatial Context for 3D
Semantic Segmentation of Point Clouds.
In IEEE Inter-
national Conference Computer Vision Workshops (ICCVW),
2017. 1, 2
[11] Fadri Furrer, Tonci Novkovic, Marius Fehr, Abel Gawel,
Margarita Grinvald, Torsten Sattler, Roland Siegwart, and
Juan I. Nieto. Incremental Object Database: Building 3D
Models from Multiple Partial Observations. In IEEE Con-
ference Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2018. 2
[12] Paul Gay, James Stuart, and Alessio Del Bue. Visual Graphs
from Motion (VGfM): Scene Understanding with Object Ge-
ometry Reasoning. In Asian Conference on Computer Vision
(ACCV). Springer, 2018. 2
[13] Justin Gilmer, Samuel S Schoenholz, Patrick F Riley, Oriol
Vinyals, and George E Dahl. Neural Message Passing for
Quantum Chemistry. In International Conference Machine
Learning (ICML), 2017. 4
[14] M. Grinvald, F. Furrer, T. Novkovic, J. J. Chung, C. Cadena,
R. Siegwart, and J. Nieto. Volumetric Instance-Aware Se-
mantic Mapping and 3D Object Discovery. IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters (RAL), 2019. 2
[15] Jiuxiang Gu, Handong Zhao, Zhe Lin, Sheng Li, Jianfei Cai,
and Mingyang Ling. Scene Graph Generation with External
Knowledge and Image Reconstruction. In IEEE Conference
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019. 1
[16] Lei Han, Tian Zheng, Lan Xu, and Lu Fang.
OccuSeg:
Occupancy-aware 3D Instance Segmentation. In IEEE Con-
ference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
2020. 1
[17] Ji Hou, Angela Dai, and Matthias Nie├¤ner.
3D-SIS: 3D
Semantic Instance Segmentation of RGB-D Scans.
In
IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2019. 1, 2
[18] Jingwei Huang,
Haotian Zhang,
Li Yi,
A. Thomas
Funkhouser, Matthias Niener, and J. Leonidas Guibas. Tex-
tureNet:
Consistent Local Parametrizations for Learning
from High-Resolution Signals on Meshes. IEEE Conference
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019. 1,
2
[19] Justin Johnson, Agrim Gupta, and Li Fei-Fei. Image Gen-
eration from Scene Graphs. In IEEE Conference Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018. 2
[20] Andrej Karpathy and Li Fei-Fei.
Deep Visual-Semantic
Alignments for Generating Image Descriptions.
In IEEE
Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2015. 2
[21] Maik Keller, Damien Le’¼éoch, Martin Lambers, Shahram
Izadi, Tim Weyrich, and Andreas Kolb. Real-Time 3D Re-
construction in Dynamic Scenes Using Point-Based Fusion.
In International Conference on 3D Vision (3DV), 2013. 1
[22] Alexander Kirillov, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, Carsten
Rother, and Piotr Dollar.
Panoptic Segmentation.
In
IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), June 2019. 7
[23] Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson,
Kenji Hata, Joshua Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalan-
ditis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, Michael Bernstein, and
Li Fei-Fei. Visual Genome: Connecting Language and Vi-
sion Using Crowdsourced Dense Image Annotations. Inter-
national Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), 2017. 2
[24] J. Lahoud, B. Ghanem, M. R. Oswald, and M. Pollefeys.
3D Instance Segmentation via Multi-Task Metric Learning.
In IEEE International Conference Computer Vision (ICCV),
2019. 1, 2
[25] Chi Li, Han Xiao, Keisuke Tateno, Federico Tombari, Nassir
Navab, and Gregory D. Hager. Incremental Scene Under-
standing on Dense SLAM. In IEEE Conference Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2016. 2
[26] Yikang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Bolei Zhou, Kun Wang, and Xiao-
gang Wang. Scene Graph Generation from Objects, Phrases
7523

--- Page 10 ---
and Region Captions.
In IEEE International Conference
Computer Vision (ICCV), 2017. 1
[27] Franco Manessi, Alessandro Rozza, and Mario Manzo. Dy-
namic Graph Convolutional Networks. Pattern Recognition,
2020. 2
[28] John McCormac, Ronald Clark, Michael Bloesch, Stefan
Leutenegger, and Andrew Davison. Fusion++: Volumetric
Object-Level SLAM. In International Conference on 3D Vi-
sion (3DV), 2018. 2
[29] John McCormac, Ankur Handa, Andrew Davison, and Ste-
fan Leutenegger. SemanticFusion: Dense 3D Semantic Map-
ping with Convolutional Neural Networks. In International
Conference Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2017. 2, 4, 7,
8
[30] Yoshikatsu Nakajima, Keisuke Tateno, Federico Tombari,
and Hideo Saito.
Fast and Accurate Semantic Mapping
through Geometric-based Incremental Segmentation.
In
IEEE Conference Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS),
2018. 2
[31] Gaku Narita, Takashi Seno, Tomoya Ishikawa, and Yohsuke
Kaji. PanopticFusion: Online Volumetric Semantic Mapping
at the Level of Stuff and Things. In IEEE Conference Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2019. 2, 7, 8
[32] Pushmeet Kohli Nathan Silberman, Derek Hoiem and Rob
Fergus. Indoor Segmentation and Support Inference from
RGBD Images. In Springer European Conference Computer
Vision (ECCV), 2012. 6
[33] Richard A. Newcombe, Shahram Izadi, Otmar Hilliges,
David Molyneaux, David Kim, Andrew J. Davison, Push-
meet Kohli, Jamie Shotton, Steve Hodges, and Andrew
Fitzgibbon. KinectFusion: Real-Time Dense Surface Map-
ping and Tracking.
In IEEE International Symposium on
Mixed and Augmented Reality, 2011. 1
[34] Alejandro Newell and Jia Deng. Pixels to Graphs by Asso-
ciative Embedding. In International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2017. 1
[35] Matthias Nie├¤ner, Michael Zollh┬©ofer, Shahram Izadi, and
Marc Stamminger. Real-time 3D Reconstruction at Scale us-
ing Voxel Hashing. In ACM Transactions on Graphics, 2013.
1
[36] Quang-Hieu Pham, Binh-Son Hua, Thanh Nguyen, and Sai-
Kit Yeung. Real-time Progressive 3D Semantic Segmenta-
tion for Indoor Scene. In IEEE Winter Conference Applica-
tions Computer Vision (WACV), 2019. 2, 7, 8
[37] Charles R Qi, Or Litany, Kaiming He, and Leonidas J
Guibas.
Deep Hough Voting for 3D Object Detection in
Point Clouds. In IEEE International Conference Computer
Vision (ICCV), 2019. 2
[38] Charles Ruizhongtai Qi, Hao Su, Kaichun Mo, and Leonidas
Guibas. PointNet: Deep Learning on Point Sets for 3D Clas-
si’¼ücation and Segmentation. In IEEE Conference Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2017. 4
[39] Charles Ruizhongtai Qi, Li Yi, Hao Su, and Leonidas
Guibas. PointNet++: Deep Hierarchical Feature Learning
on Point Sets in a Metric Space. In International Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2017.
1, 2
[40] Mengshi Qi, Weijian Li, Zhengyuan Yang, Yunhong Wang,
and Jiebo Luo. Attentive Relational Networks for Mapping
Images to Scene Graphs. In IEEE Conference Computer Vi-
sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019. 2
[41] Dario Rethage, Johanna Wald, J┬©urgen Sturm, Nassir Navab,
and Federico Tombari. Fully-Convolutional Point Networks
for Large-Scale Point Clouds. In Springer European Confer-
ence Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018. 1, 2
[42] A. Rosinol, M. Abate, Y. Chang, and L. Carlone. Kimera: an
Open-Source Library for Real-Time Metric-Semantic Local-
ization and Mapping. In International Conference Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), 2020. 2
[43] Antoni Rosinol, Arjun Gupta, Marcus Abate, Jingnan Shi,
and Luca Carlone. 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs: Actionable
Spatial Perception with Places, Objects, and Humans. Com-
puting Research Repository, 2020. 2
[44] Renato F. Salas-Moreno, Richard A. Newcombe, Hauke
Strasdat, Paul H. J. Kelly, and Andrew J. Davison. SLAM++:
Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping at the Level of Ob-
jects.
In IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2013. 2
[45] Paul-Edouard Sarlin, Daniel DeTone, Tomasz Malisiewicz,
and Andrew Rabinovich.
SuperGlue:
Learning Feature
Matching with Graph Neural Networks. In IEEE Conference
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2020. 2,
5
[46] K. Tateno, F. Tombari, I. Laina, and N. Navab. CNN-SLAM:
Real-Time Dense Monocular SLAM with Learned Depth
Prediction. In IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), 2017. 2, 6
[47] Keisuke Tateno, Federico Tombari, and Nassir Navab. Real-
Time and Scalable Incremental Segmentation on Dense
SLAM. In IEEE Conference Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS), 2015. 2, 3, 6, 8
[48] Keisuke Tateno, Federico Tombari, and Nassir Navab. When
2.5D is not enough: Simultaneous Reconstruction, Segmen-
tation and Recognition on dense SLAM. In International
Conference Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2016. 2
[49] D. Teney, L. Liu, and A. Van Den Hengel.
Graph-
Structured Representations for Visual Question Answering.
In IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR), 2017. 2
[50] Julien P. C. Valentin, Vibhav Vineet, Ming-Ming Cheng,
David Kim, Jamie Shotton, Pushmeet Kohli, Matthias
Nie├¤ner, Antonio Criminisi, Shahram Izadi, and Philip H. S.
Torr. SemanticPaint: Interactive 3D Labeling and Learning
at your Fingertips. ACM Transactions on Graphics, 2015. 2
[51] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko-
reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, ┼üukasz Kaiser, and Il-
lia Polosukhin.
Attention Is All You Need.
In Interna-
tional Conference on Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems (NeurIPS), 2017. 2, 4, 5, 6, 8
[52] Petar Veli╦ćckovi┬┤c, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova,
Adriana Romero, Pietro Li`o, and Yoshua Bengio. Graph At-
tention Networks. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR), 2018. 2, 4, 6, 8
[53] Johanna Wald, Armen Avetisyan, Nassir Navab, Federico
Tombari, and Matthias Nie├¤ner. RIO: 3D Object Instance
7524

--- Page 11 ---
Re-Localization in Changing Indoor Environments. In IEEE
International Conference Computer Vision (ICCV), 2019. 1,
6, 8
[54] Johanna Wald, Helisa Dhamo, Nassir Navab, and Federico
Tombari. Learning 3D Semantic Scene Graphs from 3D In-
door Reconstructions. In IEEE Conference Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2020. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
[55] Johanna Wald, Keisuke Tateno, J┬©urgen Sturm, Nassir Navab,
and Federico Tombari. Real-Time Fully Incremental Scene
Understanding on Mobile Platforms. IEEE Robotics and Au-
tomation Letters (RAL), 2018. 2
[56] Thomas Whelan, Stefan Leutenegger, Renato Salas Moreno,
Ben Glocker, and Andrew Davison. ElasticFusion: Dense
SLAM Without A Pose Graph. In Robotics: Science and
Systems, 2015. 1
[57] Danfei Xu, Yuke Zhu, Christopher Choy, and Li Fei-Fei.
Scene Graph Generation by Iterative Message Passing. In
IEEE Conference Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2017. 1, 2
[58] Kelvin Xu, Jimmy Ba, Ryan Kiros, Kyunghyun Cho, Aaron
Courville, Ruslan Salakhudinov, Rich Zemel, and Yoshua
Bengio. Show, Attend and Tell: Neural Image Caption Gen-
eration with Visual Attention. In International Conference
Machine Learning (ICML), 2015. 2
[59] Jianwei Yang, Jiasen Lu, Stefan Lee, Dhruv Batra, and Devi
Parikh.
Graph R-CNN for Scene Graph Generation.
In
Springer European Conference Computer Vision (ECCV),
2018. 1, 2, 6
[60] Jiazhao Zhang, Chenyang Zhu, Lintao Zheng, and Kai Xu.
Fusion-Aware Point Convolution for Online Semantic 3D
Scene Segmentation. In IEEE Conference Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2020. 2, 7, 8
7525
