Unconditional Scene Graph Generation

Sarthak Garg 1,*

Helisa Dhamo 1,*

Azade Farshad 1

Sabrina Musatian 1

Nassir Navab 1

1 Technische Universit¨at M¨unchen

Federico Tombari 1,2
2 Google

1
2
0
2

g
u
A
2
1

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
4
8
8
5
0
.
8
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Despite recent advancements in single-domain or single-
object image generation, it is still challenging to gener-
ate complex scenes containing diverse, multiple objects and
their interactions. Scene graphs, composed of nodes as ob-
jects and directed-edges as relationships among objects, of-
fer an alternative representation of a scene that is more se-
mantically grounded than images. We hypothesize that a
generative model for scene graphs might be able to learn
the underlying semantic structure of real-world scenes more
effectively than images, and hence, generate realistic novel
scenes in the form of scene graphs. In this work, we ex-
plore a new task for the unconditional generation of seman-
tic scene graphs. We develop a deep auto-regressive model
called SceneGraphGen which can directly learn the proba-
bility distribution over labelled and directed graphs using a
hierarchical recurrent architecture. The model takes a seed
object as input and generates a scene graph in a sequence
of steps, each step generating an object node, followed by
a sequence of relationship edges connecting to the previous
nodes. We show that the scene graphs generated by Scene-
GraphGen are diverse and follow the semantic patterns of
real-world scenes. Additionally, we demonstrate the appli-
cation of the generated graphs in image synthesis, anomaly
detection and scene graph completion.

1. Introduction

Scene graphs encompass a representation that describes
a scene, where nodes are categorical object instances and
the edges describe categorical relationships between them.
This representation allows for an extended high-level un-
derstanding of the scenes, which goes beyond object-level
reasoning. The computer vision community has explored
various approaches for scene graph generation from im-
ages [41, 29] as well as tasks in which this representation
has proven to be suitable, such as image retrieval [20] and

*The ﬁrst two authors contributed equally to this work
https://SceneGraphGen.github.io/

Figure 1. Method overview. a) SceneGraphGen generates scene
graphs unconditionally from a randomly sampled seed object. b)
Applications in Left: translation of a generated scene graph to an
image, using an off-the-shelf graph-to-image network Right: de-
tection of out-of-distribution samples

VQA [12]. A scene graph allows for modular, speciﬁed,
and high-level semantic control on the image components,
which makes it a good representation for semantic-driven
image generation [19] and manipulation [8].

A less explored ﬁeld has been unconditional generation
of scene graphs, i.e. generating a scene graph without any
input image, but instead, from a random input. Such scene
graph modelling can aid learning patterns from real scenes,
such as object co-occurrence, relative placements and inter-
actions. In this paper, scene graph generation is explored
under the light of generative models, with the aim to gen-
erate novel and realistic instances of scene graphs uncon-
ditionally. Recent work explored generation of relational
graphs [38] or probabilistic grammar [21], designed for a
particular domain. To the best of our knowledge, we are
the ﬁrst to investigate the use of a generative model for
generating semantic, language-based scene graphs [20, 23].

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
As scene graphs describe scenes, it is possible to translate
the generated graph to another domain, using state-of-the-
art models specialized, for instance, in the graph-to-image
task [19].
In the context of unconditional image genera-
tion, recent works demonstrate impressive results mostly
in object-centric images that contain one main subject, or
uni-modal distributions, such as datasets of faces or cars.
On the other hand, complex and diverse scenes which con-
tain multiple objects are more difﬁcult to capture by these
models. We show in our experiments that modelling un-
conditional image scene generation through scene graphs
instead leads to more distinguishable object instances, as
it enables understanding of complex and often abstract se-
mantic concepts such as objects, their interactions, and at-
tributes. Additionally, such a generative model can detect
out-of-distribution scene graphs and complete partial scene
graphs.

Recently, deep generative models have been proposed
for graph data [44, 13, 10, 33, 3], which aim to synthe-
size realistic graphs of a certain domain while capturing
graph patterns, such as degree distribution and clustering.
However, each model comes with caveats making it unsuit-
able for certain applications. The size of scene graphs often
varies signiﬁcantly, the object and relationship categories
are inherently unbalanced, and the edges are directed. For
this purpose, we develop a specialized model called Scene-
GraphGen (Figure 1). The overall auto-regressive structure
is inspired from GraphRNN [44], as it accommodates vary-
ing graph sizes, unlike [10, 33, 5]. Speciﬁcally, the model
is adapted to consume categories for nodes and edges, as
well as to support the direction of the edges. In this auto-
regressive formulation, the scene graphs are represented as
a sequence of sequences. The history of the sequence is car-
ried in a hidden state using a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU)
[6], which is used to generate categorical distribution over
the nodes and edges at each step, from which the node and
edge categories can be sampled. The nodes are generated
using a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) and the edges are gen-
erated sequentially using a GRU.

Since unconditional scene graph generation is a new
task, metrics to evaluate the quality of the generated graphs
have not been proposed yet. Thus, following [44] we lever-
age a Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) metric, adapted
with a random-walk graph kernel and a node kernel, which
are appropriate for the scene graph structure. We verify the
validity of these kernels using sets of corrupted datasets.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:

• We introduce SceneGraphGen to tackle the unexplored
task of unconditional semantic scene graph generation.
We adopt a graph auto-regressive model to enable pro-
cessing the scene graphs structure.

• We demonstrate the use of the learned scene graph

model in three applications, namely image generation,
anomaly detection, and scene graph completion.

• We propose and verify an MMD metric to evaluate the
generated scene graphs, which operates on the node
and graph level.

We evaluate our model on Visual Genome [23] and show
that it can generate semantically plausible scene graphs. We
show how these scene graphs can transfer to novel images,
using state-of-the-art scene graph to image models [19].
Additionally, we show that the model can be used to detect
unusual scene graphs and extend incomplete scene graphs.

2. Related Work

We discuss works related to scene graph inference, their

applications, and generative models on graphs in general.

Scene graphs and applications Scene graphs as pro-
posed in [20] offer a semantic description for an image, in
the form of semantic labels for objects and their relation-
ships. Large-scale datasets, e.g. Visual Genome [23] anno-
tated with scene graphs enabled deep learning tasks. A line
of works explores scene graph prediction conditioned on an
image [41, 29, 42, 25, 45] or point clouds [37, 40]. Most
works ﬁrst detect the objects in the scene, and then reason
about their relationships. In contrast, our work focuses on
unconditional graph generation– i.e. does not rely on an in-
put at test time – to model the scene graph distribution.

Scene graphs can be used for a variety of tasks. Johnson
et al. [19] propose image generation from a scene graph,
further explored in an interactive setup for generation [2]
and semantic manipulation [8]. Wang et al. [38] explore
relational graphs for indoor scene planing. Other works ex-
ploit scene graphs for image and domain-agnostic retrieval
[20, 37]. Often scene graphs are combined with language,
such as in Visual Question Answering (VQA) [12, 43] or
prediction of object type, given query locations [46].

Generative models on graphs Traditional approaches [9,
39, 24, 1] are engineered to capture some speciﬁc patterns,
often domain speciﬁc, and they fall short in generalizing to
all graph patterns.

Deep auto-regressive models for graph generation [26,
27, 44, 17] are typically ﬂexible in number of nodes, but
need to impose a node ordering. GraphRNN [44] represents
the graphs as a sequence of sequences, and uses a hierarchi-
cal GRU architecture to model the node and edge depen-
dencies. The model is scalable with O(N 2) complexity and
can output variable size graphs. They utilize a breadth ﬁrst
search (BFS) ordering to signiﬁcantly reduce the possible
orderings. However, the paper only addresses generation of
unlabelled graphs.

2

Figure 2. Illustration of the SceneGraphGen architecture. Left: The overview of the auto-regressive generation process, which takes
the current graph sequence in each step and generates a new node and a set of connecting edges. Right: Architecture details of each of the
modules: a) history encoder, b) node generator, c) edge generator.

Another line of work uses Variational Autoencoders
(VAE), which embed the graphs into a vector [33], junc-
tion tree of node clusters [18] or combine VAE with autore-
gressive approach [28]. These models usually enable graph
modeling with attributes/categories, but the model captures
inexact likelihood and do not scale well to larger graphs.

GAN based works are limited to either a single sample
[3], or a small and ﬁxed size graph [10, 5], making them
unsuitable for variable-sized and diverse scene graphs. Ad-
ditionally, they struggle with training stability.

In this work, we explore an auto-regressive approach
which allows for a ﬂexible number of graph nodes. Unlike
GraphRNN, our method supports semantic labels for nodes
and edges, models directed edges, and leverages an edge
generation GRU which is aware of the node categories.

Some recent works explore generative tasks with similar
scene structures (relational graphs [38], probabilistic gram-
mar [21, 7]). Our focus is however on semantic graphs as-
sociated with in-the-wild images, which are considerably
more diverse in node/edge labels and exhibit less regular
graph size and connectivity patterns, compared to the syn-
thetic datasets utilized in other works.

3. Methodology

s, .., Gn

Given a set of n scene graph samples Gs =
{G1
s, G2
s }, which are assumed to represent the data
distribution of scene graphs pdata(Gs), the goal is to learn a
generative model from dataset Gs, which can generate new
samples of scene graphs. A scene graph sample Gs corre-
sponding to an image I is deﬁned as Gs = (O, E) by the
set of objects (nodes) O and relationships (edges) E. Each
object oi from the set O = {o1, o2, .., om} holds an object
category oi ∈ C, where C = {1, 2, .., C}. The edges are an
ordered triplet E ⊆ {(oi, rk, oj)|oi, oj ∈ O, oi (cid:54)= oj} de-

noting the directed edge from oi to oj, where rk ∈ R is the
relationship category between the objects, R = {1, 2, .., R}
(e.g. man - wearing - shirt). We explore this task via
an auto-regressive model, which enables ﬂexibility in num-
ber of nodes and graph connectivity. We give a network
overview in section 3.1, then describe each component in
more detail in the proceeding sections.

3.1. Model formulation

SceneGraphGen learns a distribution pφ(Gs) over scene
graphs which is close to pdata(Gs). For an auto-regressive
formulation, we convert scene graphs to a sequence repre-
sentation. Under a permutation π, the node set O becomes
a sequence O = (π(o1), π(o2), .., π(om)). The edges E
are represented using two upper triangular sparse matrices
Ef rom and Eto, with relationship label rk at index (i, j) if
(π(oi), rk, π(oj)) ∈ E and (π(oj), rk, π(oi)) ∈ E respec-
tively. The matrices correspond to the two possible edges
(to and from) between any node pair. A scene graph Gs can,
thus, be represented as a sequence X = (O, Eto, Ef rom).
Each element of the sequence X is itself a sequence, given
i , Ef rom
as Xi = (Oi, Eto
), where Oi is the object node,
i and Ef rom
Eto
are the sequence of edges between Oi and
previous nodes. We translate the task of learning pφ(Gs) to
learning a sequence distribution pφ(X), that can be mod-
eled auto-regressively. The probability over sequence X is
decomposed into successive conditionals

i

i

pφ(X) = p(X1)

n
(cid:89)

i=2

pφ(Xi|X<i).

(1)

X<i = (X1, .., Xi−1) depicts the partial scene graph se-
quence up to step i. We further split each conditional

3

pφ(Xi|X<i) into three parts for each of the components as

pφ(X) = p(O1)

n
(cid:89)

pφ1(Oi|X<i)pφ2(Eto

i |Oi, X<i)

i=2

pφ3(Ef rom
i

|Oi, Eto

i , X<i).

(2)

We model Equation 2 and learn the complete probabil-
ity distribution over scene graph sequences pφ(X). We do
not make any conditional independence assumptions in our
model formulation, which allows SceneGraphGen to poten-
tially capture all the complex object and relationship depen-
dencies present in the data. p(O1) is an assumed prior dis-
tribution over the ﬁrst node, e.g. the categorical distribution
over the object occurrences. The auto-regressive modeling
is performed in three stages.

1. History Encoding: the information from the previous
steps X<i is captured in a hidden representation hi.
This stage models hi = Encoder(X<i).

2. Node generation: the hidden state is used to generate
the next object node. This stage models pφ1(Oi|hi).

3. Edge generation: the hidden state, along with the ex-
plicit node information is used to sequentially gener-
ate the edges. This stage models pφ2 (Eto
i |Oi, hi) and
pφ3(Ef rom
i , hi).
i

|Oi, Eto

The overall architecture and the each of the components are
schematically depicted in Figure 2. Now, we describe each
of the stages in detail.

3.2. History encoding

i

To carry the past information X<i at each time step i, we
use a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) architecture. We harness
three separate GRUs, which are specialized to carry infor-
mation for each of the three outputs Oi, Ef rom
and Eto
i .
This allows for decoupling of the information for the three
outputs. Note that the parameters of each of the three GRUs
are different but shared across all time steps. We call these
networks gGRUO, gGRUEf rom and gGRUEto. The initial
hidden states of the GRUs are taken to be a zero (empty)
vector. In further steps, the input to all the three GRUs is
the past sequence Xi−1, which is taken as the concatena-
tion of the three outputs from the previous step i − 1, i.e.
Oi−1, Ef rom
i−1. For the ﬁrst step, the edge inputs
are empty (zero), and the node is sampled from a prior dis-
tribution. This prior is computed based on the occurrence
of ﬁrst node category for the selected ordering strategy.

and Eto

i−1

3.3. Node generation

We use a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) which takes the
hidden state from gGRUO as input, and outputs a categori-
cal distribution over the object categories C, as prediction

4

scores θO
i . We call this network nMLP. The parameters
of nMLP are shared across all time steps. The node Oi is
then sampled from this distribution. The generation of new
nodes (and hence, the scene graph) is halted when an EOS
(end of sequence) token is encountered.

3.4. Node-aware edge generation

The output at each step i is itself a sequence of edges
Ef rom
. This forms a sequence of sequences, which in turn
i
needs a sequential model for each step of the sequence. For
this hierarchical requirement, we use a GRU which shares
the parameters, not only for all time steps i, but also for
each step inside that sequence i, which we call j. A sim-
ilar GRU is used to produce Eto
at each step i. We call
i
these networks eGRUEf rom and eGRUEto. The initial hid-
den state for these GRUs is taken as the hidden state re-
sulting from gGRUEf rom and gGRUEto networks respec-
tively. The initial input to these GRUs is an SOS (start of
sequence) token, which starts the generation process. For
any step j, the input for eGRUEto is the concatenation of
four elements, the edges from the previous step Ef rom
i,j−1 and
Eto
i,j−1, the node Oi at current step i, as well as the node Oj
from the jth time step. The additional information about the
nodes provides additional conditioning for the edge gener-
ation decision. This design choice is inspired from the high
predictability of co-occurrence of relationships for a given
object pair, i.e. additional knowledge of node pairs might fa-
cilitate relationship predictions. From this input, the GRUs
generate categorical distribution parameters over the rela-
tion categories R (and a no-edge category), given by θEto
i,j .
The next edge Eto
i,j is then sampled from this distribution.
The inputs to the eGRUEf rom at step j are the same inputs
as for eGRUEto, together with the edge Eto
i,j generated by
eGRUEto at the current step j. The next edge Ef rom
is gen-
erated by eGRUEf rom in a similar fashion. This process is
carried out for i − 1 steps, which is the number of previous
nodes that can connect to the current node Oi.

i,j

3.5. Loss objective

We learn the parameters φ of the model pφ(X) by max-
imizing the likelihood of training data G on the model. The
training is performed by using teacher forcing, i.e. at each
i , Ef rom
step i, we use the ground truth sequences Oi, Eto
instead of sampling from the model’s prediction scores
i , θEf rom
θO
. The loss is computed using cross-entropy
(CE) between the predicted scores and the ground truth se-
quence at each step, and then summing it up. For a sample
scene graph sequence X, the loss is given by

, θEto
i

i

i

L(X; φ) = LO(O; φ1) + LE(Eto

i , Ef rom

i

; φ2, φ3)

(3)

LO =

n
(cid:88)

i=2

CE(θO

i , Oi)

(4)

LE =

n
(cid:88)

i−1
(cid:88)

i=2

j=1

CE(θEto

i,j , Eto

i,j)+

n
(cid:88)

i−1
(cid:88)

CE(θEf rom
i,j

, Ef rom
i,j

)

i=2

j=1

(5)

3.6. Inference

After learning the distribution over scene graph se-
quences pφ(X), SceneGraphGen can be used to sample
new scene graph instances. The sampling procedure essen-
tially follows the auto-regressive generation formulation de-
scribed so far. First, we sample the ﬁrst object node from the
prior distribution which makes the ﬁrst sequence X1. The
prior distribution is empirically computed from the training
set, based on the occurrences of ﬁrst node when ordering the
nodes using the ordering scheme chosen during training. In
other steps we use the previous sequence Xi−1 as input to
compute the hidden states using the three gGRU’s. These
hidden states are used to generate the next node Oi using
nMLP by sampling from the categorical output. Similarly,
we generate the sequences of edges Eto
using
eGRUEto and eGRUEf rom respectively from the respective
categorical outputs. The node and sequence of edges are
combined to form the next sequence Xi. This process is
continued until the node generator outputs an EOS token.

i and Ef rom

i

SceneGraphGen can additionally be used to evaluate the
likelihood of a given sample. For a given scene graph
converted to a sequence X, each element of the sequence
Xi−1 is passed to the network to obtain the node categori-
cal outputs θO
i as well as edge categorical output sequences
θEf rom
. Then, we pick the probability of the true
i
node/edge category for each output and take the negative of
the sum of logarithm over the whole sequence X to obtain
the negative log-likelihood (NLL). This NLL value depicts
the ’unlikeliness’ of occurrence of a given scene graph sam-
ple. We use the NLL to detect anomalies in Section 4.4.

and θEto

i

3.7. Implementation details

SceneGraphGen is trained for 300 epochs, with a batch
size of 256, where 256 batches are sampled with replace-
ment per epoch. The initial learning rate is 0.001. We use
a decrement rate of 0.95 every 1710 steps. The node and
edge inputs are namely embedded to a size of 64 and 8. All
gGRUs and eGRUs have 4 GRU layers with a hidden size
of 128. nMLP consists of 2 layers with ReLU activation.

4. Results

Here we describe the experiments we carried out to mea-
sure the performance of our model. First we introduce our
evaluation protocol, including evaluation metrics, baselines
and datasets. Then we present qualitative and quantitative
results in graph generation. Finally, we illustrate the use-
fulness of the learned model in three applications: image
generation, anomaly detection and graph completion.

5

4.1. Evaluation protocol

We evaluate our model on the Visual Genome (VG)
dataset [23]. Speciﬁcally, we use the scene graphs from
the widely adopted VG split by Xu et al. [41] containing
150 object categories and 50 relationship categories, and
split into train and test sets with 58k and 26k samples re-
spectively. Further, since the scene graphs in VG dataset
have incomplete relationships, we populate the edges using
the Unbiased causal TDE model [35] from the SGG bench-
mark by Kaihua Tang [34] as it claims less bias in PredCls
for rarely occurring relationship categories. Since the dif-
ferent instances of objects (bounding boxes) in scene graphs
can correspond to the same underlying object, we use a con-
servative bounding box intersection-over-union (IoU) of 0.5
along with membership test in hand-made group categories
to detect duplicate objects and randomly select one of them.
Having duplicate objects also leads to a child object (e.g.
shirt, ear, shoe) having relationships with multiple
parent objects (e.g. man, child). We remove such rela-
tionships to a certain extent using heuristics.

Since there are no existing work for unconditional scene
graph generation, we compare our model with GraphRNN,
adapted to include node and edge categories as well as
edge directions. In contrast, SceneGraphGen includes node
information during edge generation and conditioning of
Ef rom edges on Eto edges. We also test our model un-
der various node ordering schemes, namely BFS order, hi-
erarchical order and random order. The BFS node order-
ing as introduced in GraphRNN [44], visits the graph in
a Breadth-First Search order. The hierarchical order sorts
the nodes based on their belonging relationships, i.e. back-
ground (sky), objects/beings (elephant), parts (arm).

Evaluating graph generative models based on sample
quality is a difﬁcult task [36], as it requires a comparison
of the generated set against the test set. We formulate such
comparison between the generated and test dataset using
Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD), which is deﬁned be-
tween two distributions p and q, and for a given kernel k as
MMD2(p, q) =Ex,y∼p[k(x, y)] − 2Ex∼p,y∼q[k(x, y)]
+ Ex,y∼q[k(x, y)].

(6)

Since MMD has not been used with kernels for directed and
labeled graphs, we devise two kernels for comparing any
two samples of scene graphs:
Random-walk graph kernel, inspired from [11], computes
the similarity between two scene graph samples by compar-
ing the directed random walks generated from the graphs.
Object set kernel computes the similarity between the sets
of objects in the scene graphs by comparing the object cat-
egories and the number of instances of the objects.

We refer to these metrics as MMD graph and MMD
node. MMD graph compares the distributions based on

Figure 3. Visualizations of scene graphs generated by SceneGraphGen on Visual Genome. The generated graphs are diverse in size and
content and represent reasonable scenes.

Model

Ordering

Graph
MMD node (×103) ↓ MMD graph (×103) ↓

FID ↓

IS ↑

Image
Precision ↑ Recall ↑

GraphRNN [44]

BFS
Random

BFS

SceneGraphGen Hierarchical

Random

2.3
0.39

2.05
1.85
0.37

1.3
1.2

1.82
0.63
0.11

75.8
74.5

73.3
72.2
71.2

4.88
4.85

5.04
5.26
4.95

0.680
0.679

0.679
0.717
0.727

Ground Truth

0.693
Table 1. Quantitative evaluation of the graph samples (left) and image samples (right)

0.023

0.018

5.22

73.0

0.660
0.664

0.690
0.714
0.714

0.707

overall graph similarity between samples (triplets, bigger
clusters, etc) and MMD node compares the distributions
based on the similarity between the respective set of objects
(co-occurrence, number of instances, etc). We verify the
metrics by observing their outcome on randomly corrupted
datasets and the test dataset (Table 2). A dataset corruption
of x% is done by randomly choosing x% of the nodes and
edges in the graph and replacing them with a random la-
bel. As expected, MMD values between two disjoint sets of
test datasets as well as between two fully-corrupted datasets
are very low, as the comparing datasets are very similar. As
the level of corruption increases, the MMD metrics between
test and corrupted set increases, since the distributions be-
come more dissimilar.

We further evaluate SceneGraphGen by assessing the
quality of images generated by the generated scene graphs.
Speciﬁcally, we generate 64 × 64 images using the sg2im
[19] model with the scene graphs generated by SceneGraph-
Gen as input. For assessing the sample quality, we use
established metrics in image generation quality, like the
Frechet Inception Distance (FID) [16], Inception Score (IS)

Comparison

MMD node ↓ MMD graph ↓

test Vs test
100% corrupt Vs 100% corrupt
test Vs 20% corrupt
test Vs 50% corrupt
test Vs 100% corrupt

0.018
0.11
6.0
10
44

0.023
0.0098
3.7
6.3
25

Table 2. Sanity checks for the MMD metrics (×103), comparing a
ground truth set of graphs (test) against a randomly corrupted set.

[32], Precision (F1/8) and Recall (F8) scores [31]. We com-
pare the generated images against the ground truth Visual
Genome images.

4.2. Graph generation

SceneGraphGen can generate realistic and diverse sam-
ples of scene graphs. Figure 3 shows some visualizations of
the generated graphs. We observe that the model can gen-
erate graphs corresponding to both indoor (table, food)
and outdoor scenes (building, fence, horse), while
generating reasonable object co-occurrences and semanti-
cally meaningful relationships between the objects. Scene-
GraphGen outperforms GraphRNN both in terms of MMD

6

Figure 4. Some examples of 64x64 images synthesized using sg2im on the corresponding scene graphs generated by SceneGraphGen

Figure 5. Some examples of 64x64 resolution images synthesized via a.) Unconditional StyleGAN trained on Visual Genome (left) b.)
sg2im on scene graphs generated by SceneGraphGen trained on Visual Genome (right).

graph and MMD node (Table 1, left), showing that node in-
formation signiﬁcantly improve edge generation. We also
observe that random ordering outperforms other ordering
schemes for scene graph data. Note that BFS and hierarchi-
cal ordering are biased towards some node orderings due to
their dependence on node connectivity and node semantics
respectively. Such bias is not useful for a dataset like Visual
Genome which varies a lot in structure and little regularity
assumptions can be made. We believe that a random or-
dering performs better as it has no such bias. We refer the
readers to the supplement for a comparison of data statistics
of generated dataset and test dataset.

4.3. Image generation from generated graphs

Here we want to show that the graphs generated from
SceneGraphGen can be used to synthesize novel images.
We use sg2im [19], an off-the-shelf method for image gen-
eration from scene graphs to translate the learned graphs in
the image domain. We dub this method sg2im-SGG. Fig-
ure 4 shows some examples of novel scenes generated by
the corresponding newly generated scene graphs. Quanti-

tative evaluation on the generated images (Table 1, right)
shows that SceneGraphGen outperforms GraphRNN on all
metrics, and is fairly similar to ground truth, i.e. images
generated from the ground truth test set.

We additionally compare these images against a state-of-
the-art model in unconditional image generation [22]. For
fairness, we train the StyleGAN2 model on Visual Genome
on the same training split used to train sg2im. Figure 5 il-
lustrates results for both methods. We observe that, though
StyleGAN2 generates images in good quality for simple im-
age constellations (e.g. landscapes), it fails to capture se-
mantic properties in more complex scenes (e.g. multiple in-
stances of green screens or indistinguishable objects). On
the contrary the images produced by the generated graphs
have more well grounded compositions, as dictated by the
scene graphs. We also compare the object statistics of Style-
GAN vs sg2im-SGG by detecting objects using off-the-
shelf Faster-RCNN model trained on COCO. The detector
was able to detect a total of 50 object categories for sg2im-
SGG images as compared to 40 categories for StyleGAN
images, illustrating that using scene graphs as an interme-

7

Figure 6. Anomaly detection using SceneGraphGen Left: The distribution of negative log-likelihood (NLL) of datasets under varied
levels of corruption. The value next to each distribution is the area under ROC curve. Right: An example with increasing value of NLL.

Figure 7. Samples of diverse completed scene graphs from an input partial scene graph.

diate representation aids in generating more semantically
diverse scenes. Additionally, comparing the object occur-
rences against the ground truth test set of VG, shows that
sg2im-SGG is more in line with the ground truth compared
to the StyleGAN2 model, with the ground-truth average er-
ror of 1.2 as compared to 1.4. We refer the readers to sup-
plement for a comparison of object occurrence bar plots.

we randomly sample a sequence of nodes/edges (Xi) condi-
tioned on the previous sequence (Xi−1) – same as for graph
generation – which accumulates stochasticity at each step
leading to diverse completions. Figure 7 shows how the
model is capable of generating diverse possible scene graph
completions starting from the same triplet tree - near -
house. For more examples, please refer to the supplement.

4.4. Anomaly detection

5. Conclusions

We demonstrate that the learned model can also be used
to detect anomalies in scenes. We evaluate the likeli-
hood over the test dataset using SceneGraphGen, and detect
anomalies as scene graphs whose likelihoods are outliers to
the likelihood distribution. We illustrate the effectiveness
of likelihood in anomaly detection by computing the nega-
tive log-likelihood (NLL) over datasets with various levels
of node and edge corruption. We compute the area under
ROC curve (AUROC) by using NLL scores to classify cor-
rupt samples as anomalies, as a measure of effectiveness of
NLL in anomaly detection [15]. Figure 6 (left) shows the
NLL distribution along with AUROC values. The respec-
tive GraphRNN plot can be found in the supplement. Figure
6 (right) illustrates an example of anomaly, where the more
surprising samples lead to a higher NLL value.

4.5. Scene graph completion

SceneGraphGen can also generate a scene graph condi-
tioned on a partial graph input, which allows for a more
guided generation of scenes. Starting with a partial graph,

We introduced SceneGraphGen, a model for uncondi-
tional scene graph generation. We showed that the model
is capable of learning semantic patterns from real scenes,
and synthesizing reasonable and diverse scene graphs. The
model outperforms the baselines on graph-based metrics as
well as image-based metrics. We demonstrated the appli-
cability of the learned model and the generated graphs in
image generation, detection of out-of-distribution samples
and scene graph completion. Future work will be dedicated
to exploring conditional variants of the model, such as using
text descriptions to constrain the scene category.

6. Acknowledgement

We gratefully acknowledge the Deutsche Forschungsge-
meinschaft (DFG) for supporting this research work, un-
der the project 381855581. We are also thankful to Mu-
nich Center for Machine Learning (MCML) with funding
from the Bundesministerium f¨ur Bildung und Forschung
(BMBF) under the project 01IS18036B.

8

References

[1] Emmanuel Abbe. Community detection and stochastic block
models: Recent developments. Journal of Machine Learning
Research, 18(177):1–86, 2018. 2

[2] Oron Ashual and Lior Wolf. Specifying object attributes
and relations in interactive scene generation. In Proceedings
of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision,
pages 4561–4569, 2019. 2

[3] Aleksandar Bojchevski, Oleksandr Shchur, Daniel Z¨ugner,
and Stephan G¨unnemann. NetGAN: Generating graphs via
random walks.
In Jennifer Dy and Andreas Krause, edi-
tors, Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on
Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, pages 610–619, Stockholmsm¨assan,
Stockholm Sweden, 10–15 Jul 2018. PMLR. 2, 3

[4] S. Boughorbel, Jean-Philippe Tarel, and Francois Fleuret.
Non-mercer kernels for svm object recognition. 01 2004.
13

[5] Nicola De Cao and Thomas Kipf. Molgan: An implicit gen-

erative model for small molecular graphs, 2018. 2, 3

[6] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart van Merrienboer, Dzmitry Bahdanau,
and Yoshua Bengio. On the properties of neural machine
translation: Encoder-decoder approaches, 2014. 2

[7] Jeevan Devaranjan, Amlan Kar, and Sanja Fidler. Meta-
In ECCV,

sim2: Learning to generate synthetic datasets.
2020. 3

[8] Helisa Dhamo, Azade Farshad, Iro Laina, Nassir Navab,
Gregory D. Hager, Federico Tombari, and Christian Rup-
precht. Semantic Image Manipulation Using Scene Graphs.
In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2020.
1, 2

[9] P. Erd¨os and A. R´enyi. On random graphs i. Publicationes

Mathematicae Debrecen, 6:290, 1959. 2

[10] Shuangfei Fan and Bert Huang. Labeled graph generative

adversarial networks, 2019. 2, 3

[11] Matthew Fisher, Manolis Savva, and Pat Hanrahan. Char-
acterizing structural relationships in scenes using graph ker-
In ACM SIGGRAPH 2011 Papers, SIGGRAPH ’11,
nels.
New York, NY, USA, 2011. Association for Computing Ma-
chinery. 5, 11

[12] Shalini Ghosh, Giedrius Burachas, Arijit Ray, and Avi
Ziskind. Generating natural language explanations for visual
question answering using scene graphs and visual attention,
2019. 1, 2

[13] Aditya Grover, Aaron Zweig, and Stefano Ermon. Graphite:

Iterative generative modeling of graphs, 2019. 2

[14] M. Hein and O. Bousquet. Kernels, associated structures and
generalizations. Technical Report 127, Max Planck Institute
for Biological Cybernetics, T¨ubingen, Germany, July 2004.
11

[15] Dan Hendrycks, Mantas Mazeika, and Thomas Dietterich.
Deep anomaly detection with outlier exposure, 2019. 8
[16] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner,
Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a
two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilib-
rium. In NeurIPS, 2017. 6

[17] John Ingraham, Vikas K Garg, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi
Jaakkola. Generative models for graph-based protein de-
sign. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2019. 2

[18] Wengong Jin, Regina Barzilay, and Tommi Jaakkola. Junc-
tion tree variational autoencoder for molecular graph gener-
ation, 2019. 3

[19] Justin Johnson, Agrim Gupta, and Li Fei-Fei. Image Gener-
ation from Scene Graphs. In Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018. 1, 2, 6, 7

[20] J. Johnson, R. Krishna, M. Stark, L. Li, D. A. Shamma,
M. S. Bernstein, and L. Fei-Fei. Image retrieval using scene
In Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
graphs.
Recognition (CVPR), 2015. 1, 2

[21] Amlan Kar, Aayush Prakash, Ming-Yu Liu, Eric Cameracci,
Justin Yuan, Matt Rusiniak, David Acuna, Antonio Torralba,
and Sanja Fidler. Meta-sim: Learning to generate synthetic
datasets. In ICCV, 2019. 1, 3

[22] Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, Miika Aittala, Janne Hellsten,
Jaakko Lehtinen, and Timo Aila. Analyzing and improv-
In Proceedings of the
ing the image quality of stylegan.
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 8110–8119, 2020. 7

[23] Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson,
Kenji Hata, Joshua Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalan-
ditis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, Michael Bernstein, and
Li Fei-Fei. Visual Genome: Connecting Language and Vi-
sion Using Crowdsourced Dense Image Annotations. Inter-
national Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), 2017. 1, 2, 5

[24] Jure Leskovec, Deepayan Chakrabarti, Jon Kleinberg, Chris-
tos Faloutsos, and Zoubin Ghahramani. Kronecker graphs:
An approach to modeling networks. J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
11:985–1042, Mar. 2010. 2

[25] Yikang Li, Wanli Ouyang, Bolei Zhou, Jianping Shi, Chao
Zhang, and Xiaogang Wang. Factorizable Net: An Efﬁcient
Subgraph-Based Framework for Scene Graph Generation. In
European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018. 2
[26] Yujia Li, Oriol Vinyals, Chris Dyer, Razvan Pascanu, and
Peter Battaglia. Learning deep generative models of graphs,
2018. 2

[27] Renjie Liao, Yujia Li, Yang Song, Shenlong Wang, Charlie
Nash, William L. Hamilton, David Duvenaud, Raquel Ur-
tasun, and Richard Zemel. Efﬁcient graph generation with
graph recurrent attention networks. In NeurIPS, 2019. 2
[28] Qi Liu, Miltiadis Allamanis, Marc Brockschmidt, and
Alexander L. Gaunt. Constrained graph variational autoen-
coders for molecule design. The Thirty-second Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018. 3

[29] Alejandro Newell and Jia Deng. Pixels to graphs by associa-
tive embedding. In Conference on Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems (NeurIPS), 2017. 1, 2

[30] Md Rahman and Nizar Bouguila. Efﬁcient feature mapping
IEEE Access, PP:1–1, 12

in classifying proportional data.
2020. 13

[31] Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi, Olivier Bachem, Mario Lucic, Olivier
Bousquet, and Sylvain Gelly. Assessing generative models
via precision and recall, 2018. 6

9

[32] Tim Salimans, Ian J. Goodfellow, Wojciech Zaremba, Vicki
Cheung, Alec Radford, and Xi Chen. Improved techniques
for training gans. In NeurIPS, 2016. 6

[33] Martin Simonovsky and Nikos Komodakis. Graphvae: To-
wards generation of small graphs using variational autoen-
coders, 2018. 2, 3

[34] Kaihua Tang. A scene graph generation codebase in py-
torch, 2020. https://github.com/KaihuaTang/
Scene-Graph-Benchmark.pytorch. 5

[35] Kaihua Tang, Yulei Niu, Jianqiang Huang, Jiaxin Shi, and
Hanwang Zhang. Unbiased scene graph generation from bi-
ased training. In Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2020. 5

[36] Lucas Theis, A¨aron van den Oord, and Matthias Bethge. A
note on the evaluation of generative models, 2016. 5
[37] Johanna Wald, Helisa Dhamo, Nassir Navab, and Federico
Tombari. Learning 3d semantic scene graphs from 3d indoor
reconstructions. In Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), 2020. 2

[38] Kai Wang, Y. Lin, Ben Weissmann, M. Savva, Angel X.
Chang, and D. Ritchie. Planit: planning and instantiating
indoor scenes with relation graph and spatial prior networks.
ACM Trans. Graph., 38:132:1–132:15, 2019. 1, 2, 3
[39] Stan Wasserman and Philippa Pattison. Logit models and
logistic regressions for social networks: I. an introduction
to markov graphs and p*. Psychometrika, 61:401–425, 09
1996. 2

[40] Shun-Cheng Wu, Johanna Wald, Keisuke Tateno, Nassir
Navab, and Federico Tombari. Scenegraphfusion: Incremen-
tal 3d scene graph prediction from rgb-d sequences. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 7515–7525, June
2021. 2

[41] Danfei Xu, Yuke Zhu, Christopher Choy, and Li Fei-Fei.
Scene Graph Generation by Iterative Message Passing.
In
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2017. 1,
2, 5

[42] Jianwei Yang, Jiasen Lu, Stefan Lee, Dhruv Batra, and Devi
Parikh. Graph R-CNN for Scene Graph Generation. In Eu-
ropean Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018. 2
[43] Zhuoqian Yang, Zengchang Qin, Jing Yu, and Yue Hu. Scene
graph reasoning with prior visual relationship for visual
question answering, 2019. 2

[44] Jiaxuan You, Rex Ying, Xiang Ren, William L. Hamilton,
and Jure Leskovec. Graphrnn: Generating realistic graphs
with deep auto-regressive models, 2018. 2, 5, 6

[45] Rowan Zellers, Mark Yatskar, Sam Thomson, and Yejin
Choi. Neural Motifs: Scene Graph Parsing with Global Con-
text. In Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition (CVPR), 2018. 2

[46] Yang Zhou, Zachary While, and Evangelos Kalogerakis.
Scenegraphnet: Neural message passing for 3d indoor scene
In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
augmentation.
(ICCV), 2019. 2

10

A. Supplementary Material

A.4.1 Random walk graph kernel

This document supplements our paper Unconditional Scene
Graph Generation with dataset-level statistics, the mathe-
matical description of the MMD kernels, and additional re-
sults on the different applications.

A.1. Dataset-level statistics

In addition to the MMD metrics (sample level compari-
son), we present the statistics to compare the generated and
test samples on the dataset level. We compare 20k samples
of generated scene graphs from SceneGraphGen, against
the ground truth i.e. the test dataset from Visual Genome.
Figure 8 reports different patterns such as object occurrence
(a), relationship occurrence (b) and object co-occurrence
(c). Object occurrence computes the occurrence probabil-
ity of each object label over the whole dataset. Similarly,
relationship occurrence computes the occurrence probabil-
ity of each relationship label over the whole dataset. The
object co-occurrence is computed by collecting the fre-
quency (normalized) with which two different object labels
co-occur in the same scene graph (scene). For improved vis-
ibility of co-occurrence patterns, we use a maximum thresh-
old of 0.05. In all measurements in Figure 8, we observe
similar patterns between the generated and ground truth
datasets. Since each object category can occur multiple
times in an image (instances), we compare the count distri-
bution (1, 2, so on) for each object category using Kullback-
Leibler (KL) divergence of generated dataset from the test
dataset. Figure 9 shows the KL divergence of object count
distribution for each object category, with a low average
value of 0.048.

A.2. Object occurrences in the generated images

Figure 10 shows the object occurrence of detected ob-
jects (using FasterRCNN) in the images generated by Style-
GAN (unconditional) vs the images generated by sg2im on
scene graphs generated by SceneGraphGen (sg2im-SGG).
We observe that sg2im-SGG generates images with more
objects detected and better object statistics than StyleGAN.
The FID of StyleGAN on Visual Genome is however 66.3,
so better than sg2im-SGG, which we attribute to the respec-
tive image generative models, instead of the quality of input
scene graph.

A.3. Additional examples from applications

We provide some additional examples for image gener-
ation in Figure 11, and scene graph completion in Figure
12.

A general formulation for random walk kernel is adopted
from [11], which allows freedom to choose suitable node
and edge kernels. In two graphs Ga and Gb, we want to
compare two nodes r and s respectively. We can compare
these two nodes by comparing all walks of length p in Ga
starting from r against all walks of length p in Gb start-
ing from s. The similarity between each walk-pair can be
performed by comparing the respective nodes and edges en-
countered in the walks using suitable kernels. The kernel to
compare any two nodes is given by

kp
R(Ga, Gb, r, s) =

(cid:88)

(cid:104)
knode(rp, sp)

(r1,e1,..,ep−1,rp)∈W p
Ga
(s1,f1,..,sp−1,fp)∈W p
Gb

(r)
(s)

(cid:105)
knode(ri, si)kedge(ei, fi)

p−1
(cid:89)

i=1

(7)

To compare the overall structure, the kernel in Equation 7 is
summed over all pairs of nodes, and normalized with maxi-
mum of the kernel evaluation of each graph and itself.

kp
G(Ga, Gb) =

(cid:88)

r∈VGa
s∈VGb

kp
R(Ga, Gb, r, s)

kN
G (Ga, Gb) =

kG(Ga, Gb)
max(kG(Ga, Ga), kG(Gb, Gb))

(8)

(9)

For comparing nodes, we use the simple Kronecker delta
function which is 1 when the node categories match and 0
otherwise, i.e. knode(r, s) = δ(r, s). However, since there
are multiple nodes with the same category, the importance
of the nodes in a graph will be lower for the category with
one occurrence and higher for multiple occurrences.
In
fact, the importance of a category with multiple occurrences
should diminish as the occurrences increase. For this pur-
pose, the node kernel is normalized with the frequency of
occurrence in a graph. The node kernel is given by

kN
node(r, s) = σ(r)σ(s)knode(r, s),

where σ(s) =

1
knode(r, s)

(cid:80)

s∈VGs

(10)

For comparing edges, we use the Kronecker delta function,
i.e. kedge(p, q) = δ(p, q).

A.4. Mathematical formulation of the MMD kernels

A.4.2 Object set kernel

Here we give the details on the kernels used for the MMD
evaluation.

We want to compare two sets of object instances. Hein et
al. [14] showed that for a domain set X , two sets A ∈ X ,

11

(a) Object occurrence

(b) Relationship occurrence

(c) Object Co-Occurrence
Figure 8. Comparison of the dataset-level statistics of generated scene graphs against ground truth scene graphs from Visual Genome. a.)
Object Occurrence, b.) Relationship Occurrence, c.) Object Co-Occurrence

12

Figure 9. KL divergence of the generated dataset from test dataset, which compares the object count distribution (number of instances of a
particular object category per scene) for each object category

Figure 10. Comparison of occurrence of objects detected by Faster R-CNN on the images generated by Unconditional-GAN (StyleGAN2)
vs. sg2im+SceneGraphGen model

B ∈ X , a positive deﬁnite kernels klabel and kcount, we can
deﬁne a general set kernel between A and B as:

kset(A, B) =

(cid:88)

(cid:88)

x∈X

y∈X

klabel(x, y)kcount(A(x), B(y))

(11)
We choose klabel(x, y) = δ(x, y) as the Kronecker delta
function which is one when both x and y have the same
object categories. A(x) is the number of times element x
appears in A and B(y) is the number of times element y
appears in B. kcount is deﬁned as

kcount(A(x), B(y)) =

1
1 + |A(x) − B(y)|

(12)

kcount is the generalized t-student kernel [4, 30]. This for-
mulation allows us to capture when the two sets have the
same object category member as well as how similar are
the counts of those object category members. Similar to the
graph kernel above, the object-set kernel is also normalized
with the maximum of kernel evaluation of each object set
with itself.

kN
set(A, B) =

kset(A, B)
max(kset(A, A), kset(B, B))

(13)

A.5. Anomaly detection comparison

Figure 13 demonstrates a comparison between Scene-
GraphGen and the GraphRNN baseline on the NLL plot,
extending Figure 6 (left) in the main paper. Our interpreta-

13

Figure 11. Additional examples of 64×64 images generated using sg2im on the corresponding scene graphs generated by SceneGraphGen

Figure 12. Additional examples of scene graph completions from an initial partial scene graph using SceneGraphGen

14

tion is that our model is more sensitive to the level of dataset
corruption compared to the baseline, i.e. the NLL gap be-
tween the different levels is larger than for the baseline.

Figure 13. Distribution of NLL under varied levels of corruption

A.6. Checking for overﬁtting

Figure 14 shows examples of generated graphs and the
respective nearest graph (via graph kernel comparison)
from training data. The graphs are not identical, i.e. the
model is not reproducing examples from the training set.

Figure 14. Examples of generated graphs as well as closest sample
from the training set.

15

