FunGraph: Functionality Aware 3D Scene Graphs
for Language-Prompted Scene Interaction
Dennis Rotondi, Fabio Scaparro, Hermann Blum, Kai O. Arras
This paper has been accepted for publication at the 2025 International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
Abstract— The concept of 3D scene graphs is increasingly
recognized as a powerful semantic and hierarchical represen-
tation of the environment. Current approaches often address
this at a coarse, object-level resolution. In contrast, our goal
is to develop a representation that enables robots to directly
interact with their environment by identifying both the location
of functional interactive elements and how these can be used.
To achieve this, we focus on detecting and storing objects at
a finer resolution, focusing on affordance-relevant parts. The
primary challenge lies in the scarcity of data that extends
beyond instance-level detection and the inherent difficulty of
capturing detailed object features using robotic sensors. We
leverage currently available 3D resources to generate 2D data
and train a detector, which is then used to augment the standard
3D scene graph generation pipeline. Through our experiments,
we demonstrate that our approach achieves functional element
segmentation comparable to state-of-the-art 3D models and that
our augmentation enables task-driven affordance grounding
with higher accuracy than the current solutions. See our project
page at https://fungraph.github.io.
I. INTRODUCTION
A semantically rich 3D representation of the environment
is essential for various robotic downstream tasks, including
task-driven perception, planning, or manipulation. Building
on the capability of SLAM to learn topometric maps and
leveraging recent advancements in multimodal foundation
models, the concept of 3D scene graphs is gaining increasing
attention. 3D scene graphs (3DSG) [1], [2] are hierarchical
representations that capture both the geometric and semantic
structure of a scene, where nodes represent objects or spaces
at various scales, and edges define their relationships. They
enable robots to understand and reason about their surround-
ings, achieving unprecedented levels of open-vocabulary 3D
scene understanding [3], [4].
In related work, 3D scene graphs are typically structured
at the room and object level (e.g., [3]). However, this level
of granularity may be insufficient for robots that physically
interact with their environment. For typical tasks in a house-
hold such as opening a fridge, adjusting a thermostat, or
operating switches and buttons, a more fine-grained repre-
sentation is key for context-aware interactions. This should
D. Rotondi, F. Scaparro and K.O. Arras are with the Socially Intelligent
Robotics Lab, Institute for Artificial Intelligence, University of Stuttgart,
Germany. Email: dennis.rotondi@ki.uni-stuttgart.de.
H. Blum is with the Robot Perception and Learning Lab, LAMARR
Institute for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, University of
Bonn, Germany.
This work is partially supported by the Robotics Institute Germany (RIG)
funded by BMBF. The authors also thank the International Max Planck
Research School for Intelligent Systems (IMPRS-IS) for supporting Dennis
Rotondi.
Legend
 Object node
 Functional element node
 Inter-object relationship edge
 Intra-object relationship edge
Language Query
Can you grab a frozen pizza?
Hook Pull
Fig. 1.
An example of a generated 3D scene graph and its application. The
model represents both object and functional element nodes linked through
intra-object relationships. All purple-colored segments in the left image
have been correctly detected as functional elements of type “Hook Pull,”
associated with different kitchen objects. One use of this representation is
affordance grounding, in which unconstrained language queries produce the
relation to the functional elements required to fulfill a task (freezer handle
highlighted in red, right image).
include objects and functional object parts such as knobs,
handles or buttons, as well as predictions of possible inter-
actions with them. In other words, in addition to inter-object
relationships, the 3D scene graph should be extended by
intra-object relationships, a problem largely underexplored
in robotics and the focus of this paper, see Fig. 1.
One of the key challenges in modeling intra-object re-
lationships is accurately perceiving functional object parts.
Such parts are typically small, sparsely sampled in sensory
data, and underrepresented in public datasets. As a result,
even state-of-the-art object detectors struggle with low de-
tection accuracy in both 2D and 3D.
To address this challenge, we utilize SceneFun3D [5],
a large-scale dataset that provides sensory data and 3D
annotations for functional interactive elements in household
environments. However, this dataset was collected using
expensive, highly accurate 3D LiDAR sensors, whereas our
focus is on robotics scenarios that rely on affordable, on-
board RGB-D sensors. Therefore, our approach involves
generating 2D data for detector fine-tuning and analyzing
its impact in 3D. We leverage this result to extend 3D scene
graphs with intra-object relationships, enabling task-driven
affordance grounding. Specifically, our contributions are:
• A method to detect functional interactive elements from
images, predict their affordances, and assign contextu-
alized descriptions.
• A framework, FunGraph, for extending the generation
arXiv:2503.07909v2  [cs.CV]  10 Aug 2025
of 3D scene graphs through intra-object relationships,
representing functional elements and their affordances
in relation to object nodes.
• A quantitative and qualitative evaluation of how the
produced structure allows for 3D functional elements
segmentation and task-driven affordance grounding.
The source code and additional materials for FunGraph
are publicly available at https://fungraph.github.io.
II. RELATED WORK
A. 3DSG Generation and Prediction
3D scene graphs (3DSG) [1], [2], [6] are a spatial data
representation in the form of a hierarchical graph with nodes
representing different parts of a scene, such as buildings,
rooms, and at the most granular level objects. These objects
can then be connected through various relationships, includ-
ing spatial (e.g., A “is next to” B), comparative (e.g., A “is
larger than” B), and support (e.g., A “lays on” B).
To build 3DSG from observations, different lines of work
investigated the incremental creation from raw sensor in-
puts [3], [4], [7], [8], or create scene graphs from existing
3D scans in post-processing [1], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13].
The latter is sometimes referred to as 3DSG prediction. All
these prior works have in common that their lowest layer is
at the level of objects, and they do not consider object parts
or their functionality and articulation.
Among the related works, only CLIO [8] mentions a need
for different granularity, e.g., to represent that a piano is com-
posed of keys and other parts. However, they only consider
object parts and do not group them into objects. They further
rely on point-grid-prompted SAM [14] to propose object
segments, which is not reliably capable of detecting small
interactive elements such as knobs. Another recent work [15]
uses a 3DSG with object-to-object-part relations, but only in
a single demo, to retrieve an object from a drawer.
B. Alternative Queryable Scene Representations
Implicit representations such as NeRFs [16] are known
for their rendering accuracy and, if not based on feature
grids, have no explicitly defined resolution, which is ideal
for functional interactive elements that are generally small.
However, semantic variants of NeRFs [17], [18], [19], [20]
and Gaussian Splatting [21] are evidently limited with regard
to small objects and sub-parts. These methods rely on pixel-
aligned semantic features such as DINO [22] or CLIP [23],
which, however, lack the necessary level of detail for func-
tional elements.
Search3D [24] aims to build a hierarchical, open-
vocabulary 3D scene representation that addresses finer-
grained scene entities, such as object parts. However, its
segmentation is purely geometric. Functional elements are
small and, therefore, require high-resolution scans to be
geometrically detectable, which has limited practicality. Ad-
ditionally, the method lacks semantic richness, which is
heavily dependent on the foundation model employed. It does
not establish any inter-relationships between entities in the
scene, making queries such as, “turn off the light above the
stove” impossible to answer.
C. Functionality Segmentation & Affordance Understanding
The PartNet dataset [25] consists of dense annotations on
3D CAD models, and datasets like 3D AffordanceNet [26]
and PartAfford [27] have been built upon it, focusing on
Gibsonian affordances [28], which characterize how humans
interact with human-made objects and environments. These
datasets annotate, for example, how a chair can be divided
into backrest, seat, and legs. Prior works have linked this
to robotic interaction [29], [30]. Their focus, however, is
primarily on predicting Gibsonian affordances of already
isolated objects, rather than on our investigated problem of
identifying functional interactive elements in a larger scene.
MultiScan [31] takes a step toward highlighting movable
object parts in a room scan, such as individual drawers in a
cabinet. However, it does not provide comprehensive anno-
tations for interactive components like knobs, handles, and
other similar elements in the scene. The recent SceneFun3D
[5] was the first dataset to annotate the functional elements
themselves in real room-scale scenes. Based on ARKitScenes
[32], they select nine Gibsonian-inspired affordance labels
to represent interactions with common elements in indoor
environments (e.g., Rotate, Hook Pull, etc.) and annotate
the 3D point cloud directly. Notably, this data annotates
functional interactive elements in isolation, i.e., it lacks
information on which knob opens which drawer or whether,
e.g., two knobs would open the same drawer. To the best of
our knowledge, no 2D dataset with annotated functionally
interactive elements currently exist. Therefore, prior 2D
detectors, for example, leveraged semi-supervised learning
from human video demonstrations [33] to predict interactive
elements.
While predictors trained on large datasets offer important
priors, it is actually impossible to know how, for example,
a kitchen cabinet door opens without trying. Therefore,
researchers have also looked into robotic interactive explo-
ration [34], [35] as a way to complement predictive priors.
These works are directly compatible with the scene graph
framework that we propose, where each interactive element
prediction can be updated as a robot collects experience in
an environment. In the same way, our structure supports all
solutions that learn a policy to interact with objects [36], [37],
[38] because they can be used as a final step to effectively
perform the task (see Fig 2).
III. METHOD
A. Problem Formulation
This work aims to extend the classical pipeline of 3D scene
graph generation for indoor environments by incorporating
intra-object relationships between scene objects (referred to
as “objects” in the following) and their 3D functionally
interactive elements (referred to as “functional elements” in
the following). For example, we want a cabinet to have a
direct relationship with its knobs, enhancing the scene graph
with information about the object’s possible interactions.
Fig. 2.
Implementation of our approach on a mobile manipulator using
RGB-D sensing (3D LiDAR not used). The yellow edges in the left
picture show intra-object relationships, the blue ones represent inter-object
relationships, and the red curve is the robot’s camera trajectory. On the right,
our robot is shown grasping the top handle of the detected drawer cabinet.
The input to the proposed method consists of a series of
RGB-D observations, I = {I1, I2, . . . , IN}, and correspond-
ing camera poses, P = {P 1, P 2, . . . , P N}. Note that, in
the following, each image Ii is captured from pose P i using
camera parameters Ki.
The output of the proposed method is a 3D scene graph,
specifically a hierarchical graph G = (V, E). That is, the set
of nodes V can be partitioned into l layers (V = ∪l
i=1Vi).
Indeed, by design, introducing intra-object relationships does
not interfere with the hierarchical properties of the structure:
single parent, locality, and disjoint children [39], which
involve nodes V (the collection of objects of the 3D scene)
and edges E (the relationships between objects) of the graph.
To ensure the validity of all the theoretical results from
Hughes et al. [39], care must be taken with the property
of disjoint children. Assuming that the objects are relatively
small within the scene, any spatial relationship se ∈E can be
directly inherited by these smaller objects in the 3D scene
graph representation without losing any information about
the scene. For example, if a wardrobe is next to a closet, we
can also infer that the knobs of the closet are next to the
wardrobe without the need to add explicit edges between
the wardrobe and the functional elements of the closet.
However, this does not hold for comparative relationships.
For instance, ensuring the disjoint children property prevents
us from relating functional elements of two different objects.
In this work, we consider only spatial relationships for
our graph. That said, it should be noted that incorporating
non-spatial relationships (e.g., between a light switch and a
light) may break the hierarchical graph structure.
B. Generation of 2D Data
By definition, functional elements are meant for human in-
teraction. Therefore, common functional interactive elements
such as door knobs, light switches, or handles are all smaller
than a regular human hand. To detect these elements, robots
require sensors with sufficient spatial resolution.
Because cm-resolution LiDARs are not detailed enough
and mm-resolution 3D scanners are cost-prohibitive in many
robotic applications, we assume a collection of registered
RGB-D observations as input and propose to detect func-
tional elements from high-resolution RGB.
To detect functional elements from RGB images, we find
state-of-the-art open-vocabulary object detectors [40], [41] to
be insufficient (cf. Table I). Since there are also no other pre-
trained detectors for this task, our first step is to produce data
for our own model. In particular, we preprocess the datasets
listed in II-C to be used as 2D training data.
The procedure illustrated in this section is applied to
SceneFun3D [5], as it is the only resource at the time
of writing containing detailed information about functional
elements. In any case, this approach is general and can be
applied to similar data in the future to generate robust 2D
observations from annotated 3D point clouds.
For each scene point cloud PCD in the dataset, along
with 3D functional interactive element annotations A =
{A1, A2, . . . , AM}, where each annotation represents a sin-
gle point cloud segment Aj ⊂PCD, and RGB-D observa-
tions I captured from the scene, the goal is to generate 2D
annotated images with bounding boxes for performing 2D
object detection of functional interactive elements.
For each image Ii, each annotation Aj is projected on the
2D image plane as aj = (xj yj zj)T = KiP −1
i Aj Then,
we mask out all points from aj that are behind (zj < 0),
or outside of the current camera image. We also remove all
points where the depth di in Ii differs from the projected
depth zj by more than a certain threshold θdepth, indicating
that this annotated element is occluded in the current frame.
Finally, if the annotation projected onto the image has a
bounding box area larger than a certain threshold θarea and
the ratio of pixel points to total points in Aj exceeds a
threshold θpoints, it is kept; otherwise, it is discarded. At the
end of the process, each image Ii associated with a scene will
be left with a subset of projected annotations from A[i] ⊂A,
whose bounding boxes will contribute to the 2D dataset
(the collection of all annotated images obtained through this
process from all scene point clouds) used to train the 2D
detector for functional elements.
C. Functionality Aware 3D Scene Graph Generation
In the past few years, a clear methodology has emerged as
a framework for generating a 3D scene graph from RGB-D
observations [3], [4], [7], [42]. The process consists of three
phases:
• Detection: Instance segmentation of entities captured in
the images and feature extraction.
• Node creation: Multi-view geometric and semantic
feature merging.
• Edge creation: Relationship generation.
Each of these phases requires particular attention when
dealing with objects the size of functional elements. Fig. 3
provides an overview of our method.
Detection. Rather than the class-agnostic 2D segmentation
of [4], we opt for the approach from ConceptGraphs [3].
This method detects objects before segmenting them for each
image Ii, making it straightforward to associate objects with
their functional elements. The class-agnostic segmentation
was shown to produce slightly better results in object re-
trieval, but without clearly defined instances, the association
Intra-object relationships
MASK
Hook Pull
Pinch Pull
Rotate
Rotate
MASK+FEAT
3D segments 
RGB-D Sequence
Detection
Inter-object relationships 
“Describe the spatial 
relationships between the 
objects in the image”
Node Creation
next to
Edge Creation
new
:
,
,
:
Pinch Pull → Cabinet Knob
Rotate →Burner Knob
Context-based 
Label Refinement 
has part
Burner Knob
Burner Knob
Oven Handle
Object: Functional-elements groups
Fig. 3.
Overview of our functionality-aware 3D scene graph generation pipeline, which consists of three stages: (1) Detection, where instance segmentation
and feature extraction are performed to identify both objects and functional elements; (2) Node Creation, where multi-view geometric and semantic feature
merging is used to construct graph nodes; and (3) Edge Creation, where inter-object and intra-object relationships are established using spatial reasoning
and affordance-based associations.
between objects and functional elements is more complicated
and potentially less reliable.
For each Ii ∈I, the q classes and bounding boxes of
objects and functional elements are detected independently
using two different models.
After filtering out detections with confidence below θbbox
and relative-to-image area ratio lower than θrarea, we prompt
a general-purpose segmentation model with each remaining
bounding box. The segments are then reprojected into 3D
using the depth information of Ii and denoised using DB-
SCAN clustering, resulting in a set of 3D object segments
(or point clouds)
O[i] = {O[i]
m, O[i]
a } = {o[i]
m1, . . . , o[i]
mp, o[i]
ap+1, . . . , o[i]
aq}
where the subscript m denotes objects and a denotes func-
tional elements. Each object is associated with a label c[i]
j
and semantic features f [i]
j
extracted using the CLIP model
from the bounding-box cropped image. We further discard
functional elements that do not overlap with any object’s
bounding box by at least θrel.
Context-Based Label Refinement. With the detector trained
using the resource in III-B, functional elements are classified
into a closed set of Gibsonian-inspired affordances based on
the SceneFun3D annotations. To ensure the method’s open
vocabulary ability and obtain more concrete descriptions of
the functional elements, we prompt a visual language model
(VLM) for each group of object and its associated functional
elements. For example, this allows us to obtain the names
“Refrigerator Handles” and “Freezer Handle” from an image
of a refrigerator, which is associated with two “Hook Pull”
functional elements through bounding box overlap. Each
element in the image prompt is annotated using the bounding
box and the current label name. Fig. 4 shows an example
result.
Node Creation. In the following, we incrementally merge
the object detections from images to create the graph’s nodes.
For each image, each o[i]
mj ∈O[i]
m is compared to the nodes’
point cloud in the graph representing objects. To be merged
(though union), two point clouds u, v need to score over
θgeo according to a geometric similarity score and over θsem
according to a semantic similarity score. The geometric
similarity is [4]:
S(u, v) = max(overlap(u, v), overlap(v, u))
(1)
where overlap(u, v) is the ratio of the points of u withing
a certain distance from v divided by the total number of
points of u. For the semantic comparison, cosine similarity
ϕ(f n, f [i]
j ) between the features of the node n and the object
is used. The object segment is merged into the node that
yields the highest sum of the two similarities in the described
process. After each successful merge, the point cloud of node
n is denoised using DBSCAN and downsampled to reduce
redundancy, and then the semantic features are updated as
f n ←(f n ∗nn + f [i]
j )/(nn + 1)
(2)
where nn represents the number of times a point cloud has
been merged into the one of node n. The class c[i]
j
is saved
along with all the other classes merged into node n, and
only after processing all the images is the most common class
assigned. If no similarity check is passed, o[i]
mj is merged with
an empty, newly initialized node containing a zero-feature
vector and an empty associated point cloud. Then, for each
o[i]
ak associated with o[i]
mj, which was previously merged into
node n, we search for the most suitable node among the
associated functional element nodes of the 3DSG related to
n to merge it into. Only the metric (1) is employed, but
with a different threshold θgeo2. The same merging process
is followed, with two key differences: redundant points are
removed without downsampling, and the functional element
segment is merged with all nodes that pass the similarity
check. This approach is beneficial because, when dealing
with objects the size of functional elements, they are often
only partially observed, making it difficult to fill certain gaps
that could otherwise lead to a final merge at a later stage.
If no similarity check is passed, the functional element is
merged into a newly initialized empty node and associated
Top Drawer Handle
Third Drawer Handle
Second Drawer Handle
Bottom Drawer Handle
Oven Door Handle
Hook Pull
Temperature Control Knob
Function Selector Knob
Oven
Cabinet
Fig. 4.
Illustration of our context-based label refinement. The VLM is
queried to contextualize functional elements with their associated parent
objects. The handle on the right, labeled “Hook Pull,” is not linked to any
object, and, as a result, cannot be refined further.
with node n.
Periodically, the graph nodes are processed in batches and
merged with each other, first merging object nodes and then
functional element nodes related to the merged object nodes
if they pass the geometric and semantic similarity checks.
When all images and their corresponding elements have
been processed, we remove nodes that are not formed by
at least θnum merged segments from the graph. For the
remaining functional element nodes, we apply an outlier
removal procedure using radial and statistical filters. This
enhances the robustness of the graph creation process by
preventing noisy reconstructions from being included.
Edge Creation. Our 3DSG has two types of edges:
spatial inter-object relationships between the objects in the
scene and intra-object relationships between objects and their
functional elements.
For inter-object relationships, during the node creation
phase, we track the image sources of all object segments
that contribute (through merging) to different nodes. We then
sequentially prompt a VLM with images where all detected
objects are highlighted to extract binary relationships be-
tween objects (i, j).
The most common relationship is added as an edge be-
tween the nodes of i and j, encoding this spatial knowledge.
The relationship can be either symmetric (e.g., “next to”) or
directional (e.g., “on top of”).
For intra-object relationships, we use the bounding box
association described in the detection phase to establish a
“has-part” directed relationship, linking the object to its as-
sociated functional element. An attribute of this relationship
is the affordance label extracted by the 2D detector trained
on our generated dataset, which specifies the purpose of the
functional element in the context of the object.
D. Implementation details
For the 2D dataset generation, we use θdepth = 0.1 [m],
θdepth = 800 [pixels2], and θpoints = 0.6 as thresholds.
For the 3D scene graph generation pipeline, we use
YOLO-WORLDv8.2 for object detection and RT-DETR for
functional element detections, the best in terms of mAPval
50:95
according to Table I. As a general-purpose semantic segmen-
tation model we use SAM2 [14], and as VLM GPT-4o [43].
The thresholds in this context are θbbox = 0.4, θrarea = 0.7,
θrel = 1, θgeo = 0.5, θsem = 0.6, θgeo2 = 0.6 and
θnum = 3. All computations are performed on a machine
with an NVIDIA 4090 GPU, 64GB RAM + 64GB SWAP,
and an AMD Ryzen 9 7950X Processor.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
In the following, we conduct experiments to investigate
the accuracy of our trained 2D models and compare them
to existing zero-shot detectors. We further validate the scene
graph generation and 3D lifting against the current SOTA
3D detectors for functional elements segmentation. Finally,
we investigate the usefulness of our generated 3DSGs to
respond to task-driven affordance queries such as “open the
left window above the radiator.”
A. Detecting Functional Interactive Elements in Images
A fundamental assumption of our proposed pipeline is
that functional elements can be detected at least as well
from a collection of RGB-D images as from a high-quality
laser scan. Therefore, we first compare the 2D detection
performance of our trained models and, in the following
section, place this into context with existing 3D models.
Among the nine classes of SceneFun3D, we retained
only the seven most appropriate for describing functional
elements, discarding “unplug” and “plug in” along with their
respective annotations, as they primarily focused on plugs
(we also do not consider them in possible queries and
annotations in all the experiments). Taking this into account
and based on the process described in Section III-B, we
produce a total of 274 022 annotations across 132 635 images
with our projection pipeline. We further augmented the data
with 1% background images (images in which no functional
element is visible), forming our standard dataset (T). The
train-validation split of the dataset is 80/20, with the split
ensuring that train and validation images come from different
scenes.
As a baseline, we run YOLO-Worldv8.2 [40] and Ground-
ing Dino [41] in a zero-shot fashion. We add the names of the
functional elements (“knob,” “handle,” “button,” “switch,”
“pedal,” and “general functional interactive element”) to their
standard prompt set and associate each of their predicted
labels with the label of the ground truth bounding box that
has the highest overlap with the predicted one, solely to
evaluate their detection capabilities.
Next, we fine-tune YOLOv11 [44] and RT-DETR [45] on
the standard dataset. Further, we compare these models on
a variant dataset, which we compute using the slicing-aided
hyper inference (SAHI) mechanism [46], and refer to it as
the sliced dataset (ST). This splits the images into 640×640
patches, which we then use for training and detection. With a
slice of 20% in both directions, where an annotation covers
at least 60% of the original area, this process generates a
total of 335 430 annotated images.
TABLE I
Model
Dataset
mAPval
50:95
mAPval
50
YOLO-Wv8.2
-
0.0
0.0
GroundingDINO
-
0.0
0.7
YOLOv11
T
7.5
22.4
RT-DETR
T
8.6
26.7
YOLOv11
ST
13.6
15.0
RT-DETR
ST
21.0
26.2
Fine-tuning results for 2D functional interactive element detection. The
dataset column indicates the training dataset: T is our standard training
set and ST is our sliced training set. Pre-trained models are used if no
dataset is listed. We report the standard COCO [47] metrics.
As evident from Table I, zero-shot detections are poor.
This is the main reason why, in prior 3DSG works that
use such zero-shot models, representing functional elements
explicitly is not possible. According to our evaluation, RT-
DETR trained on ST and predicting using SAHI performs
best across the metrics. This confirms the findings of [46] that
SAHI is effective for detecting smaller elements. However,
given the little difference between ST and T training data for
mAPval
50, we conclude that ST training does not lead to better
detections, but to better bounding box accuracy (reflected in
mAPval
50:95).
B. Functional Interactive Elements 3D Segmentation
The next experiment validates the accuracy of the 3D
reconstruction and segmentation of the functional element
detected in 2D and assesses how much information is lost
in the process of transitioning back and forth between 3D
and 2D. To this end, we randomly select 10 scenes from the
validation dataset: 423070, 423306, 423738, 434892,
435357, 435715, 435724, 442392, 464754, 467330,
and associate the point cloud of our functional element node
with the eight nearest points within 5 [mm] from the original
laser scan, for which the ground truth segmentation has been
annotated. Note that we retain all functional element detec-
tions, even without object associations, to avoid penalizing
scores when parent objects are undetected.
We then compute the AP metrics as defined in [5]. Per-
label results are reported in Table II. We note that the exact
numerical results are difficult to compare, as [5] does not
release either the model checkpoints or the full train/test
split. Given that the measured performance on the different
splits of the same datasets are in a similar range, we carefully
conclude that our proposed method achieves similar results to
SOTA approaches that directly predict the class for the points
in 3D. The main penalized classes are those for which it is
difficult to generate flawless masks due to background noise.
Another source of error is not directly related to the method:
indeed, the poses P provided in the dataset [5] are not
always accurate, generating artifacts in the merging process
and penalizing the metrics that require higher precision.
To further emphasize the correlation between 2D detection
quality and 3D segmentation performance, we conducted
an ablation study to relate the metrics from the previous
experiment to the varying prediction confidence threshold
TABLE II
Affordance
AP
AP50
AP25
AP10
Foot Push
0.0
0.0
20.0
46.7
Tip Push
10.0
19.9
28.4
28.4
Rotate
6.1
19.9
25.6
28.6
Pinch Pull
1.7
6.6
24.8
31.5
Hook Pull
0.0
0.0
10.1
10.1
Hook Turn
9.5
25.2
37.7
59.0
Key Press
14.1
40.4
65.8
65.8
Average
5.9
16.0
30.3
38.6
Mask3D-F [5]
[7.9]
[18.3]
[26.6]
-
Segmentation results of 3D functional elements by affordance label for
validation of our 3D lifting approach. The original values of the
Mask3D-F model are reported for qualitative comparison; its training/test
data, model, and weights are not yet fully public. Note that our approach
has to cope with inaccurate poses whereas [5] directly segments on the
point cloud not affected by these errors.
TABLE III
Confidence
AP
AP50
AP25
AP10
0.2
4.4
8.8
24.2
32.3
0.3
5.1
10.4
27.6
34.0
0.4
5.9
16.0
30.3
38.6
0.5
5.0
10.8
27.6
37.2
0.6
3.6
8.0
22.1
34.9
Ablation study on the impact of 2D object detection confidence for 3D
segmentation performance.
θbbox of our trained detector. The results are presented in
Table III.
C. Affordance Grounding
In the following experiment, we aim to assess the perfor-
mance of our method on the task-driven affordance ground-
ing benchmark in [5]: each query consists of a text-based
description of the task; the goal is to localize and segment
the functional interactive elements that an agent needs to
interact with in order to successfully accomplish the task.
For example, the expected result of “Open the trash bin” is
the point cloud of all the trash can pedals in the scene.
To achieve this, we convert our 3D scene graph represen-
tation into a JSON format, retaining information about each
node’s ID, 3D center of mass, 3D bounding box extension,
label, relationships with the environment, and functionality
affordance if it is a functional element.
We then instruct GPT-4o to find in the JSON the ID(s) of
the node(s) that solve the query. This highlights the general
advantage of 3DSG representations as they can be easily
parsed by LLMs. On the same set of scenes, and in the same
manner discussed in IV-B, we retrieve the closest points to
our prediction in the original point cloud and compute the
3D point cloud intersection over union (IoU) between our
prediction and the ground truth answer elements. We count
a query as passed if the IoU is at least 25% (AP25).
In Table IV, we report per-scene results and compare
them to the SOTA ConceptGraphs [3] that can answer
unconstrained language queries on the map. As is evident
from the numbers, ConceptGraphs does not account for the
TABLE IV
Scene
#Queries
ConceptGraphs
FunGraph (ours)
AP25
AP>0
AP25
AP>0
423070
8
0.0
25.0
50.0
50.0
423306
3
0.0
0.0
33.3
66.7
423738
21
0.0
57.1
33.3
85.7
434892
5
0.0
40.0
40.0
40.0
435357
10
0.0
50.0
30.0
60.0
435715
12
0.0
8.3
33.3
75.0
435724
10
0.0
10.0
10.0
20.0
442392
8
0.0
25.0
37.5
37.5
464754
18
0.0
22.2
27.8
44.4
467330
4
0.0
50.0
100
100
Total
99
0.0
31.3
33.3
58.6
Results for task-driven affordance grounding on randomly selected scenes
and queries taken from [5]. For each method, the percentage of success
(IoU at least 25% and > 0%) is shown for the scenes in our validation
sample. The original number of queries for each scene is reported.
possibility of providing functional elements as answers to
queries. Instead, it returns whole object point clouds, which
results in low IoU with the ground truth. Therefore, we
further report AP>0, where we count a query as successful
if there is even a single overlap point between the response
and the ground truth. The results, however, show that the
return of ConceptGraphs is still less accurate, indicating that
the inclusion of functional elements and object-part relations
in the 3DSG not only improves retrieval localization but also
generally allows for answering more queries correctly.
Interestingly, one of the main advantages of storing seg-
mented functional elements in the 3DSG, is that the scores
between 3D functional element segmentation and affordance
grounding do not differ much because all the information
needed is stored and only needs to be identified. To further
contextualize the numbers from Table IV, the AP25 of the
best model in [5] is 17.5. Even considering the above-
mentioned issues of their unavailable models, the comparison
indicates that 3DSGs are better representations for answering
task-driven queries than direct retrieval from the point cloud.
D. Label Refinement Ablation Study
As described in Section III-B, the first detection of func-
tional elements only associates them with their affordance
label. To obtain also a semantically meaningful label, we
prompt GPT-4o with each group of object and its associated
functional elements in the image. We call this approach
“GPT-Context” to highlight that the model is aware of
the intra-object relationship. We compared this approach to
prompting GPT-4o with only the functional element’s bound-
ing box annotation (approach “GPT-No-Context”) and using
CLIP features to classify it within a closed vocabulary of
functional elements. We manually verified 100 detected func-
tional objects, labeling them as ’C’ (correct), ’W’ (wrong), or
’P’ (partially correct), where partially correct cases indicate
predictions like a “cabinet drawer knob” instead of a “cabinet
door knob.” Results are reported in Table V. CLIP features
alone perform poorly due to the small size of functional
TABLE V
CLIP
GPT-No-Context
GPT-Context
C
P
W
C
P
W
C
P
W
Handle
32.5
37.5
30.0
77.5
12.5
10.0
82.5
10.0
7.5
Knob
43.3
33.3
23.3
23.3
56.7
20.0
70.0
23.3
6.7
Button
10.0
15.0
75.0
55.0
20.0
25.0
85.0
10.0
5.0
Other
20.0
0.0
80.0
30.0
20.0
50.0
70.0
30.0
0.0
Total
30.0
28.0
42.0
52.0
28.0
20.0
78.0
16.0
6.0
Ablation study on context-based label refinement. Correct (C), partially
correct (P), and wrong (W) predictions % are reported. In total, 100
objects have been studied: 40 handles, 30 knobs, 20 buttons, and 10 other
functional elements (pedals, touchscreens, etc.).
elements and their bag-of-words behavior, which generates
many incorrect results. The best refinements come from the
GPT-Context solution, supporting our design choice of early
functional-elements-object grouping.
V. LIMITATIONS
Even though our approach shows promising results com-
pared to the state of the art in 3D scene graph research for
functional element segmentation and retrieval, there is still
room for improvement.
We took advantage of recent developments in resources for
3D functional elements to demonstrate how this information
can be incorporated into a 3DSG. However, we emphasize
that this is only an initial extension of the structure in terms
of sub-object parts. For example, our method directly relates
the knob to the cabinet but not to the drawer of the cabinet, an
intermediate information that may still be valuable to retain.
Further exploration is needed to better relate functional
elements that may be shared between multiple objects or
mounted between two objects. For example, knobs com-
monly found between an oven and a stove are among the
most frequent sources of naming and association errors,
according to our analysis.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
In this work, we presented FunGraph, the first 3D scene
graph framework that models intra-object relationships, fo-
cusing on functional elements to enable tasks requiring
interaction with objects in a scene.
Through our experiments, we demonstrated that our finer-
grained representation achieves performance comparable to
state-of-the-art 3D detectors, and we highlight the superiority
of the method to direct point cloud affordance grounding.
However, our approach is fundamentally rooted in the 2D
domain. It does not rely on segmenting a pre-existing high-
quality point cloud, which makes it also suitable for robotics
applications with affordable RGB-D sensing. We are able to
detect and store information about the functional elements
of objects while extending the general 3DSG generation
pipeline and preserving the graph’s hierarchical property.
In the future, we will augment 3D scene graphs with
even more fine-grained representations by introducing inter-
mediate object parts before linking the objects themselves
to functional elements. Moreover, we will integrate all the
necessary manipulation information into functional element
nodes, enabling robots to perform motions that interact with
objects and ultimately providing an end-to-end solution.
REFERENCES
[1] I. Armeni, Z.-Y. He, J. Gwak, A. R. Zamir, M. Fischer, J. Malik, and
S. Savarese, “3d scene graph: A structure for unified semantics, 3d
space, and camera,” ICCV, 2019.
[2] U.-H. Kim, J.-M. Park, T.-j. Song, and J.-H. Kim, “3-d scene graph:
A sparse and semantic representation of physical environments for
intelligent agents,” IEEE Trans. on Cybernetics, 2020.
[3] A. Kuwajerwala, Q. Gu, S. Morin, K. M. Jatavallabhula, B. Sen,
A. Agarwal, C. Rivera, W. Paul, K. Ellis, R. Chellappa, C. Gan,
C. M. de Melo, J. B. Tenenbaum, A. Torralba, F. Shkurti, and L. Paull,
“Conceptgraphs: Open-vocabulary 3d scene graphs for perception and
planning,” ICRA, 2024.
[4] A. Werby, C. Huang, M. B¨uchner, A. Valada, and W. Burgard,
“Hierarchical open-vocabulary 3d scene graphs for language-grounded
robot navigation,” RSS, 2024.
[5] A. Delitzas, A. Takmaz, F. Tombari, R. Sumner, M. Pollefeys, and
F. Engelmann, “SceneFun3D: Fine-Grained Functionality and Affor-
dance Understanding in 3D Scenes,” CVPR, 2024.
[6] A. Rosinol, A. Gupta, M. Abate, J. Shi, and L. Carlone, “3d dynamic
scene graphs: Actionable spatial perception with places, objects, and
humans,” RSS, 2020.
[7] N. Hughes, Y. Chang, and L. Carlone, “Hydra: A real-time spatial
perception system for 3d scene graph construction and optimization,”
RSS, 2022.
[8] D. Maggio, Y. Chang, N. Hughes, M. Trang, D. Griffith, C. Dougherty,
E. Cristofalo, L. Schmid, and L. Carlone, “Clio: Real-time task-driven
open-set 3d scene graphs,” RA-L, 2024.
[9] J. Wald, H. Dhamo, N. Navab, and F. Tombari, “Learning 3D Semantic
Scene Graphs from 3D Indoor Reconstructions,” CVPR, 2020.
[10] S.-C. Wu, J. Wald, K. Tateno, N. Navab, and F. Tombari, “Scenegraph-
fusion: Incremental 3d scene graph prediction from rgb-d sequences,”
CVPR, 2021.
[11] S. Koch, P. Hermosilla, N. Vaskevicius, M. Colosi, and T. Ropinski,
“Sgrec3d: Self-supervised 3d scene graph learning via object-level
scene reconstruction,” Winter Conference on Applications of Computer
Vision (WACV), 2023.
[12] Z. Wang, B. Cheng, L. Zhao, D. Xu, Y. Tang, and L. Sheng, “Vl-
sat: Visual-linguistic semantics assisted training for 3d semantic scene
graph prediction in point cloud,” CVPR, 2023.
[13] S. Koch, N. Vaskevicius, M. Colosi, P. Hermosilla, and T. Ropinski,
“Open3dsg: Open-vocabulary 3d scene graphs from point clouds with
queryable objects and open-set relationships,” CVPR, 2024.
[14] A. Kirillov, E. Mintun, N. Ravi, H. Mao, C. Rolland, L. Gustafson,
T. Xiao, S. Whitehead, A. C. Berg, W.-Y. Lo, P. Doll´ar, and R. Gir-
shick, “Segment anything,” ICCV, 2023.
[15] T. Behrens, R. Zurbr¨ugg, M. Pollefeys, Z. Bauer, and H. Blum,
“Lost & found: Tracking changes from egocentric observations in 3d
dynamic scene graphs,” RA-L, 2025.
[16] B. Mildenhall, P. P. Srinivasan, M. Tancik, J. T. Barron, R. Ramamoor-
thi, and R. Ng, “Nerf: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields
for view synthesis,” ECCV, 2020.
[17] Y. Siddiqui, L. Porzi, S. R. Bul`o, N. M¨uller, M. Nießner, A. Dai,
and P. Kontschieder, “Panoptic lifting for 3d scene understanding with
neural fields,” CVPR, 2023.
[18] S. Zhi, T. Laidlow, S. Leutenegger, and A. J. Davison, “In-place scene
labelling and understanding with implicit scene representation,” ICCV,
2021.
[19] J. Kerr, C. M. Kim, K. Goldberg, A. Kanazawa, and M. Tancik, “Lerf:
Language embedded radiance fields,” ICCV, 2023.
[20] F. Engelmann, F. Manhardt, M. Niemeyer, K. Tateno, M. Pollefeys,
and F. Tombari, “OpenNeRF: Open Set 3D Neural Scene Segmentation
with Pixel-Wise Features and Rendered Novel Views,” ICLR, 2024.
[21] M. Qin, W. Li, J. Zhou, H. Wang, and H. Pfister, “Langsplat: 3d
language gaussian splatting,” CVPR, 2024.
[22] M. Caron, H. Touvron, I. Misra, H. J´egou, J. Mairal, P. Bojanowski,
and A. Joulin, “Emerging properties in self-supervised vision trans-
formers,” ICCV, 2021.
[23] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal,
G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark, G. Krueger, and I. Sutskever,
“Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervi-
sion,” ICML, vol. 139, 2021.
[24] A. Takmaz, A. Delitzas, R. W. Sumner, F. Engelmann, J. Wald, and
F. Tombari, “Search3D: Hierarchical Open-Vocabulary 3D Segmenta-
tion,” RA-L, 2025.
[25] K. Mo, S. Zhu, A. X. Chang, L. Yi, S. Tripathi, L. J. Guibas, and H. Su,
“PartNet: A large-scale benchmark for fine-grained and hierarchical
part-level 3D object understanding,” CVPR, 2019.
[26] S. Deng, X. Xu, C. Wu, K. Chen, and K. Jia, “3d affordancenet: A
benchmark for visual object affordance understanding,” CVPR, 2021.
[27] C. Xu, Y. Chen, H. Wang, S.-C. Zhu, Y. Zhu, and S. Huang,
“Partafford: Part-level affordance discovery from 3d objects,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2202.13519, 2022.
[28] J. J. Gibson, The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton
Mifflin, 1979.
[29] C. P. Morlans, C. Chen, Y. Weng, M. Yi, Y. Huang, N. Heppert,
L. Zhou, L. Guibas, and J. Bohg, “Ao-grasp: Articulated object grasp
generation,” IROS, 2024.
[30] G. Schiavi, P. Wulkop, G. Rizzi, L. Ott, R. Siegwart, and J. J. Chung,
“Learning agent-aware affordances for closed-loop interaction with
articulated objects,” ICRA, 2023.
[31] Y. Mao, Y. Zhang, H. Jiang, A. X. Chang, and M. Savva, “Multiscan:
Scalable rgbd scanning for 3d environments with articulated objects,”
NeurIPS, 2022.
[32] G. Baruch, Z. Chen, A. Dehghan, T. Dimry, Y. Feigin, P. Fu,
T. Gebauer, B. Joffe, D. Kurz, A. Schwartz, and E. Shulman,
“ARKitscenes - a diverse real-world dataset for 3d indoor scene
understanding using mobile RGB-d data,” NeurIPS, 2021.
[33] S. Bahl, R. Mendonca, L. Chen, U. Jain, and D. Pathak, “Affordances
from human videos as a versatile representation for robotics,” CVPR,
2023.
[34] R. Buchanan, A. R¨ofer, J. Moura, A. Valada, and S. Vijayakumar,
“Online estimation of articulated objects with factor graphs using
vision and proprioceptive sensing,” ICRA, 2024.
[35] C. Ning, R. Wu, H. Lu, K. Mo, and H. Dong, “Where2explore: Few-
shot affordance learning for unseen novel categories of articulated
objects,” NeurIPS, vol. 36, 2023.
[36] Y. Wang, X. Zhang, R. Wu, Y. Li, Y. Shen, M. Wu, Z. He, Y. Wang,
and H. Dong, “Adamanip: Adaptive articulated object manipulation
environments and policy learning,” ICLR, 2025.
[37] A. Donat, X. Jia, X. Huang, A. Taranovic, D. Blessing, G. Li, H. Zhou,
H. Zhang, R. Lioutikov, and G. Neumann, “Towards fusing point
cloud and visual representations for imitation learning,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.12320, 2025.
[38] H. Zhu, Y. Wang, D. Huang, W. Ye, W. Ouyang, and T. He, “Point
cloud matters: Rethinking the impact of different observation spaces
on robot learning,” NeurIPS, 2024.
[39] N. Hughes, Y. Chang, S. Hu, R. Talak, R. Abdulhai, J. Strader,
and L. Carlone, “Foundations of spatial perception for robotics:
Hierarchical representations and real-time systems,” The Int. J. of
Robotics Research, 2024.
[40] T. Cheng, L. Song, Y. Ge, W. Liu, X. Wang, and Y. Shan, “Yolo-world:
Real-time open-vocabulary object detection,” CVPR, 2024.
[41] T. Ren, Q. Jiang, S. Liu, Z. Zeng, W. Liu, H. Gao, H. Huang, Z. Ma,
X. Jiang, Y. Chen, Y. Xiong, H. Zhang, F. Li, P. Tang, K. Yu, and
L. Zhang, “Grounding dino 1.5: Advance the ”edge” of open-set object
detection,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.10300, 2024.
[42] C. Kassab, M. Mattamala, S. Morin, M. B¨uchner, A. Valada, L. Paull,
and M. Fallon, “The bare necessities: Designing simple, effective
open-vocabulary scene graphs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.01539,
2024.
[43] OpenAI, “GPT-4 technical report,” CoRR, 2023.
[44] R. Khanam and M. Hussain, “Yolov11: An overview of the key
architectural enhancements,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.17725, 2024.
[45] Y. Zhao, W. Lv, S. Xu, J. Wei, G. Wang, Q. Dang, Y. Liu, and J. Chen,
“Detrs beat yolos on real-time object detection,” CVPR, 2024.
[46] F. C. Akyon, S. O. Altinuc, and A. Temizel, “Slicing aided hyper
inference and fine-tuning for small object detection,” 2022 IEEE Int.
Conf. on Image Processing (ICIP), 2022.
[47] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan,
P. Doll´ar, and C. L. Zitnick, “Microsoft coco: Common objects in
context,” ECCV, 2014.
