IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
1
A Reverse Causal Framework to Mitigate Spurious
Correlations for Debiasing Scene Graph Generation
Shuzhou Sun, Li Liu, Tianpeng Liu, Shuaifeng Zhi, Ming-Ming Cheng, Janne Heikkil¨a, Yongxiang Liu
Abstract—Existing two-stage Scene Graph Generation (SGG) frameworks typically incorporate a detector to extract relationship features and a
classifier to categorize these relationships; therefore, the training paradigm follows a causal chain structure, where the detector’s inputs
determine the classifier’s inputs, which in turn influence the final predictions. However, such a causal chain structure can yield spurious
correlations between the detector’s inputs and the final predictions, i.e., the prediction of a certain relationship may be influenced by other
relationships. This influence can induce at least two observable biases: tail relationships are predicted as head ones, and foreground
relationships are predicted as background ones; notably, the latter bias is seldom discussed in the literature. To address this issue, we propose
reconstructing the causal chain structure into a reverse causal structure, wherein the classifier’s inputs are treated as the confounder, and both
the detector’s inputs and the final predictions are viewed as causal variables. Specifically, we term the reconstructed causal paradigm as the
Reverse causal Framework for SGG (RcSGG). RcSGG initially employs the proposed Active Reverse Estimation (ARE) to intervene on the
confounder to estimate the reverse causality, i.e. the causality from final predictions to the classifier’s inputs. Then, the Maximum Information
Sampling (MIS) is suggested to enhance the reverse causality estimation further by considering the relationship information. Theoretically,
RcSGG can mitigate the spurious correlations inherent in the SGG framework, subsequently eliminating the induced biases. Comprehensive
experiments on popular benchmarks and diverse SGG frameworks show the state-of-the-art mean recall rate.
Index Terms—Scene graph generation, causal inference, long-tailed distribution
✦
1
INTRODUCTION
Scene Graph Generation (SGG) is an essential task to bridge
computer vision and natural language processing [1], [2], [3], [4].
This task primarily focuses on producing a structured semantic
representation of a scene, describing both the objects within
the scene and their relationships. SGG offers a higher level
understanding of a visual scene [5], [6], [7], which is crucial for
cognitive tasks. It, therefore, has attracted significant attention
due to its great potential for improving various downstream
vision tasks, such as image-text retrieval [1], [8], visual question
answering [9], [10], visual captioning [11], [12], etc.
Despite
considerable
advancements
in
SGG
task,
the
challenge
of
biased
predictions
persists
as
a
relatively
unaddressed
concern.
Within
the
body
of
research,
such
biased predictions typically refer to predicting fine-grained
tail relationships as those belonging to coarse-grained head
categories. The prevailing view attributes this to the imbalanced
relationship distribution within SGG datasets. As illustrated
in Figure 1 (a), the relationships are dominated by a few head
categories, exemplified by the “on” relationship, which accounts
for an extraordinary 34.8% of cases. The impact of this skewed
distribution is showcased in Figure 1 (c), where it’s observed
•
This work was partially supported by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China No. 2021YFB3100800, the Academy of Finland
under grant 331883, Infotech Project FRAGES, and the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant 62376283 and 62201603.
•
Li Liu, Tianpeng Liu, Shuaifeng Zhi, and Yongxiang Liu are with the College of
Electronic Science and Technology, National University of Defense Technology
(NUDT), Changsha, Hunan, China.
Li Liu (dreamliu2010@gmail.com), Yongxiang Liu (lyxbible@sina.com), and
Tianpeng Liu (everliutianpeng@sina.cn) are the corresponding authors.
•
Shuzhou Sun is with the Department of Computer Science & Technology,
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, and also with the Center for Machine
Vision and Signal Analysis (CMVS), University of Oulu, 90570 Oulu, Finland.
Janne Heikkila is with the Center for Machine Vision and Signal Analysis
(CMVS), University of Oulu, 90570 Oulu, Finland.
•
Ming-Ming Cheng is with the TKLNDST, College of Computer Science, Nankai
University, Tianjin 300350, China.
that a significant portion of the tail relationships are predicted
as head ones; for instance, “covered in” is predicted as “on”.
For the biased predictions, substantial efforts have been made
through various approaches, including resampling [13], [14],
reweighting [15], [16], [17], [18], adjustment [19], [20], and hybrid
strategies [21], [22], [23], [24]. The above methods emphasize
that imbalanced relationship distributions can mislead the SGG
model; however, they overlook relationship features that are
not derived through independent and identical distribution
(i.i.d.) sampling within the relationship feature space but are
aggregated from the image feature space (please refer to Section
3.2 and Figure 3 (a) for a detailed analysis). As a result,
these strategies inherently fail to address the gap of training
relationship-level classifiers using image-level features, which,
however, we believe, is pivotal to biased predictions.
In this paper, we go beyond merely skewed relationship
distributions, initiating our inquiry from the perspective of the
training framework to uncover the roots of biased predictions
within SGG task. Conventional SGG frameworks typically
employ a sequential arrangement, featuring an object detector
followed by a relationship classifier, all within a two-stage
training paradigm [5], [6], [7], [25]. In the first stage, an object
detector pre-trained on the SGG dataset for object detection
tasks, extracts relationship features R from the input images
X. These features R typically encompass the features of the
objects involved in the pairwise relationships and their bounding
boxes, often cropped from the complete feature map to maintain
uniformity in size, the process can be achieved by RoI Pooling as
seen in Faster R-CNN [26]. In the second stage, these extracted
features R serve as the foundation for training a relationship
classifier. Note that during this classifier’s training stage, the
detector’s parameters are kept frozen. Thus, our goal is to build
an optimal mapping between the classifier’s inputs (relationship
features R) and outputs (final predictions Y ).
However, the aforementioned decoupled SGG framework
arXiv:2505.23451v1  [cs.CV]  29 May 2025
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
2
(a)
(b)
Foreground relationships
Background relationships
(d)
(c)
bird
wing
wing
bird
head
wing
bird
head
on
Foreground relationships
Background relationships
(No annotations provided)
covered in
covering
from 
laying on
hanging from 
on back of
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Number of relationships in the test set
 Right predictions
 Wrong predictions
 Wrong predictions on "on"
 Wrong predictions on "has"
 Wrong predictions on "in"
 Wrong predictions on "of"
above
at
carrying
eating hanging from riding
under
using
with
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
 Right predictions with background output 
 Right predictions without background output
Number of relationships in the test set
Foreground relationships
Background relationships
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
50 relationships in VG150
Percentage of each relationship category
Head relationships, e.g., 
‘on’=34.8%, 
‘has’=13.6%, etc.
Tail relationships, e.g., 
‘standing on’=0.7%, 
‘carrying’=0.3%, etc.
Fig. 1. The motivations of RcSGG. Images and count numbers are sourced from VG150. Test results were obtained from the MotifsNet model under the
PredCls mode. (a) Distribution of head and tail relationships. Here, we approximate the top 50% as head relationships (on, has, in, of, wearing), with the
remainder classified as tail relationships. (b) Foreground and background relationships in the scene graph generation task and their respective proportions
over the entire dataset. (c) The number of right and wrong predictions, where we also showcase the number of instances incorrectly predicted as partial head
relationships. (d) The number of right predictions under two scenarios: considering and not considering background relationships.
results in a semantic gap between training features and the
target model, i.e., relationship features sampled from the
image space are utilized to train the relationship classifier.
Focusing
on
aggregated
relationship
features
within
the
image domain compromises the independence of relationship
predictions, meaning that predictions for one relationship
in an image should not be influenced by others. In this
paper,
we
formally
define
such
compromised
predictive
independence as spurious correlations within the two-stage
SGG framework: The relationship features employed in classifier
training are aggregated within the image domain, thus causing
predictions for a particular relationship to be influenced by
other relationships within the same image; this influence is
defined in this paper as spurious correlations from the input
image to relationship predictions. Clearly, any imbalance in
image domain aggregation exacerbates the impact of these
spurious correlations. Unfortunately, existing SGG datasets
typically exhibit two types of imbalance at the image domain
level: 1) Head and tail relationship imbalance, as seen in Figure
1(a), and 2) Foreground-background relationship imbalance, as
illustrated in Figure 1(b). Consequently, spurious correlations in
SGG tasks lead to two types of prediction biases: 1) Predicting
head relationships as tail relationships (Figure 1(c)), and 2)
Predicting foreground relationships as background relationships
(Figure 1(d)). To distinguish these biases, we refer to them
respectively as head-tail bias and fore-back bias. Additionally,
it is important to note that in SGG tasks, the image domain
exhibits significant relationship co-occurrences. For instance,
the probability of encountering “mounted on” and “growing
on” within the same image is considerably higher than seeing
“mounted on” and “flying on” together. Such co-occurrences
can exacerbate the impact of spurious correlations, extensively
analyzed in Section 3.2.
For head-tail bias and fore-back bias induced by spurious
correlations, we resort to causal inference [27], [28], [29], [30], an
inference procedure that has demonstrated remarkable efficacy
across fields such as statistics, econometrics, and epidemiology
and has also gained considerable traction within the deep
learning community in recent times. Our primary insight is that
causal inference can model non-linear, high-order dependencies
between variables [31], [32]. In our approach, we initially build a
Structural Causal Model (SCM) [30], [33] tailored for the SGG
task. From previous discussions, it is clear that a two-stage
training paradigm should adhere to the causal chain structure
X →R →Y , where →denotes the direction of causality. Thus,
the problem simplifies to focusing on the causality R →Y ,
which is influenced by spurious correlations between X and Y .
Intuitively, ensuring statistical independence between X and Y
within the chain structure X →R →Y can effectively eliminate
the spurious correlations. Inspired by reverse causality [27], we
reconstruct the causal chain X →R →Y into a reverse causal
structure X →R ←Y . In this configuration, the correlation
between X and Y is eliminated, effectively preventing spurious
correlations in SGG tasks. This restructuring is supported by the
two-stage training paradigm where: 1) A static object detector
extracts relationship features R from image features X, which a
relationship classifier then uses to predict labels Y . R inherently
carries predictive information about Y , shaped by the label-
guided training process. Thus, the observed causal relationship
R →Y can effectively be modeled in reverse as Y
→R,
making R a mediator between X and Y . 2) Reverse causality
[27] posits that Y →R reconstructs the dependency when the
outcome Y can impact the intermediary R. In our framework,
the distribution of R is continuously refined based on the
outcomes from Y during the training of relationship classifier
(as detailed in Section 3.3.1), aligning with the reverse causality’s
requirements for dependency reconstruction.
For the restructured framework X →R ←Y , we need
to estimate the reverse causality, i.e., R ←Y . To achieve this,
we propose Active Reverse Estimation (ARE), inspired by the
model-to-data training paradigm in Active Learning (AL) [34],
[35], [36], [37]. AL emphasizes the impact of inference outcomes
on training data, aligning with our reconstructed inverse
relationship R ←Y . ARE first establishes a query condition
to sample from the query set for optimizing the feature space,
where the query set constitutes a subset of the entire relationship
feature space. Specifically, the query condition iterates based on
the loss during training, thereby ensuring adaptive optimization
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
3
of the relationship feature space. Unfortunately, the SGG task
confronts a dual bias dilemma, i.e., head-tail bias and fore-back
bias. To address dual imbalance, our proposed Active Reverse
Estimation (ARE) encompasses two stages: 1) Borrowing from
active learning’s model-to-data paradigm, each training iteration
within our framework refines the space of foreground relations
based on the prior iteration’s results, effectively addressing
the challenge of head-tail bias. Additionally, SGG tasks face
significant challenges due to dual imbalances: relationship and
object imbalances, where object imbalances further lead to
disparities among object pairs. Consequently, the ARE sampling
tends to converge on prominent object pairs, as elaborated in
Section 3.3.2. To counteract this issue, we introduce Maximum
Information Sampling (MIS), which focuses on maximizing
the information yield from sampling outcomes based on the
distribution of object pairs. 2) For the optimized foreground
relationship space, we selectively discard certain background
relationships to mitigate fore-back bias, while our meticulously
designed foreground-background preservation ratio enhances
model training stability. Notably, our approach is designed to be
seamlessly incorporated into any two-stage framework, offering
a model-agnostic solution that supports both reverse causality
estimation during training phase and forward causality inference
during testing phase, as detailed in Section 3.4.4.
In summary, the contributions of our work are three-fold:
•
We thoroughly analyze the biased prediction problem in
the SGG task, including the widely studied head-tail bias
and the less-discussed fore-back bias. Importantly, we
identify that both types of bias originate from the same
underlying issue, i.e., spurious correlations.
•
We reconstruct the causal chain structure of the standard
SGG paradigm into a reverse causal structure, denoted as
RcSGG. RcSGG incorporates Active Reverse Estimation
for reverse causality estimation, alongside employing
Maximum Information Sampling to refine this estimation
process. Theoretically, our method eradicates biased
predictions induced by spurious correlations between
input images and final outputs.
•
RcSGG attains state-of-the-art performance in terms
of mean recall rate, as demonstrated by extensive
experimental results on popular benchmarks and SGG
frameworks, while also achieving a better trade-off
between recall and mean recall rates.
2
RELATED WORKS
2.1
Unbiased cene Graph Generation
Scene Graph Generation (SGG) assigns a triplet relationship,
such as <people, sitting on, chair>, to each pair of objects in
an image [3], [4]. Hence, compared to image classification [38],
[39] and object detection [26], it facilitates a more profound
understanding of the given scenes. Benefiting from this, SGG
has shown promising utility across a spectrum of downstream
applications, such as image-text retrieval [1], [8], visual question
answering [9], [10], and visual captioning [11], [12]. However, the
challenge of data imbalance within SGG datasets [40], which can
yield biased predictions, has prompted a shift in research focus
towards developing debiasing strategies. Consequently, our
discussion narrows to the examination of debiasing approaches
within the SGG task, highlighting efforts to enhance the
influence of tail relationships during model training. These
efforts can broadly be categorized into four distinct categories:
Resampling methods [13], [14], [41] upsample tail relationships
and/or downsample head ones to rebalance the training data
distribution. For instance, Decoupled Training for Devil in the
Tails (DT2) [41] devised a novel sampling method, Alternating
Class-Balanced Sampling (ACBS), to capture the interplay
between long-tailed entities and the predicate distribution of
visual relationships.
Reweighting methods [15], [16], [17], [18], [42] modify the
contributions of various relationships during training, for
instance, by weighting prediction losses to improve the model’s
ability to represent tail categories. Recently, Multi-Label Meta
Weight Net (ML-MWN) [42] introduced a multi-label meta-
learning framework to address biased relationship distributions,
learning a meta-weight network for each training sample.
Adjustment methods [19], [20] adjust the biased models to
achieve debiased predictions, for example, by adjusting output
logits to enhance the probability of neglected relationships
during training. Dynamic Label Frequency Estimation (DLFE)
[19] frames SGG as a Learning from Positive and Unlabeled data
(PU learning) task and introduces Dynamic Label Frequency
Estimation (DLFE) to refine label frequency estimates, leveraging
training-time data augmentation over multiple iterations.
Hybrid methods [21], [22], [23], [24] typically integrate a
subset or even all of the aforementioned strategies. For example,
NICE [22] initially detects noise in samples to reassign them
high-quality soft predicate labels and incorporates a dynamic
balancing weighting strategy during the knowledge distillation
phase to penalize biases across different teacher networks.
Beyond the strategies previously outlined, some recent
works [43], [44], [45] enhance learning for tail relationships
through network modifications to pursue debiased predictions.
Furthermore, incorporating additional knowledge, especially
from large models, shows promise in mitigating biases in SGG
models. For instance, CaCao [46] enhances tail relationships
using the pretrained language models. Recently, Semantic
Granularity
Controller
(SGC)
[47]
has
been
proposed
to
address predicate overlap by dynamically adjusting predicate
granularity. While both SGC and RcSGG aim to mitigate biases
in SGG, their focuses differ: SGC primarily targets predicate-
level adjustments to resolve annotation inconsistencies, whereas
RcSGG
addresses
spurious
correlations
by
reconstructing
the
causal
structure
of
the
training
paradigm.
Although
debiasing research is rather active in the SGG community, these
approaches primarily emphasize the influence of the long-tail
distribution on relationship classifier training while neglecting
the fundamental source of bias: spurious correlations arising
from the current two-stage training paradigm. Furthermore, the
foreground-background imbalance is rarely considered in these
methods. In contrast, our work traces the model bias from the
causal perspective and proposes a debiased scene graph model,
RcSGG. Our method estimates the reverse causality and thus
can eliminate both head-tail and fore-back biases induced by
spurious correlations within the two-stage training paradigm.
2.2
Causal Inference
Causal
inference
investigates
causal
relationships
between
variables, employing experimental design and observational
studies to mitigate confounding factors, and has achieved
impressive
performance
in
statistics,
econometrics,
and
epidemiology [27], [29], [30], [32], [48], [49]. Causal inference
has also attracted significant attention in the SGG community
recently. Such approaches focus on the intrinsic features of
the relationships through causal interventions, mitigating the
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
4
Stage 2
 book
people
sitting on
behind
holding
chair
dog
output
Relationship
feature
Object pair
feature
Relation
classifier
Feature cropping
Spatial embedding
Class
label
Word embedding
Bounding
box
input
Object
detector
Visual
feature
Stage 1
X
fo
R
fc
Y
Fig. 2. The standard pipeline of the two-stage scene graph generation framework, where the input image X is processed by a pre-trained object detector to
obtain relationship features R, followed by a relationship classifier to produce the final output Y .
effects of confounding variables, and thereby making debiased
predictions even in the face of skewed distributions. For
instance, TDE [20] employs counterfactual estimation for the
debiasing of the trained SGG model. DSDI [50] addresses dual
imbalances in observed data by incorporating biased resistance
loss and a causal intervention tree, consequently enhancing
foreground representation and mitigating context bias. More
recently, TsCM [51] introduced a two-stage causal learning
approach: the first stage focuses on causal representation
learning, eliminating the semantic confusion bias in the SGG
task, while the second stage emphasizes causal calibration
learning, addressing the long-tailed distribution bias. Compared
to
the
aforementioned
methods,
our
approach,
RcSGG,
emphasizes two key distinctions:
1) Source of bias. Our work investigates biases from
the perspective of model architecture. Specifically, we analyze
the spurious correlations inherent in the prevalent two-stage
training paradigm and identify two observable biases: head-tail
bias and fore-back bias. Notably, the latter has received limited
attention in the existing literature. In contrast, methods such as
TsCM [51] focus on bias sources primarily at the data distribution
level, such as the imbalance in relationship distributions.
2) Bias mitigation. RcSGG mitigates spurious correlations by
reconstructing the causal chain into a reverse causal structure,
effectively addressing the biases introduced by the two-stage
training paradigm. In contrast, existing methods like TsCM [51]
are predominantly data-driven, relying on statistical knowledge
extracted from the training set, such as relationship populations
and adjustment factors. These methods fail to address the root
causes of bias and overlook architecture-specific biases.
3
METHODS
3.1
Overview
Popular Scene Graph Generation (SGG) frameworks typically
involve
two
subtasks:
object
detection
and
relationship
classification [1], [2], [5], [20], [25]. As depicted in Figure 2,
the object detector, denoted as fo, begins by extracting class
labels, bounding boxes and visual features from the images X.
Since fo is frozen, such information for an image remains fixed
throughout the training process. Class labels and bounding
boxes are embedded into vectors of specific dimensions,
while visual features are cropped based on bounding boxes
to represent vectors of individual objects, typically achieved
through RoI pooling. These vectors are then jointly embedded
into relationship features R. Subsequently, these features R are
paired and fed into the relationship classifier fc to produce
the final output Y . However, it’s worth emphasizing that the
detector fo is typically pre-trained on the SGG dataset with the
object detection task and remains frozen during the training of
classifier fc. Hence, the central goal of this typical two-stage
SGG framework is to develop a high-performing relationship
classifier fc, with fo serving merely to extract relationship
features from X necessary for fc’s training.
The typical two-stage SGG framework, refined for debiasing,
primarily scrutinizes skewed annotations as the main source of
model biases. However, these approaches overlook the model
biases induced by the decoupled two-stage training regime,
where “decoupled” refers to fo and fc undergoing separate
training phases. Such biases are attributable to fc being trained
with a skewed feature space, yet this non-ideal space is actually
extracted from images by a pre-trained and subsequently
frozen detector. Evidently, there exists a training gap here:
fc’s training input is relationship features. These features do
not come as independently and identically distributed samples
from the relationship space but are instead extracted from the
image space, leading us to argue that this introduces spurious
correlations between the input images and the final predictions.
Formally, in Section 3.2, we discuss the origins of spurious
correlations and how they induce model biases, especially the
head-tail bias and fore-back bias. We further analyze why a
potential solution, batch balance, is inappropriate for the SGG
task. In Section 3.3, we introduce a slightly tempered alternative,
approximate batch balance; however, as a compensation for
the approximation, we suggest leveraging a reverse causal
estimation strategy to optimize the feature space in each batch.
In Section 3.4, we highlight how our method differentiates
from reweighting and resampling techniques, and detail its
integration of both reverse and forward causal estimations
into any SGG framework, enhancing its utility for debiased
predictions.
To clarify upcoming sections, we define key notations and
symbols here. Let D = {(X, Y )} = {(xi, yi)}ND
i=1 denote the
observed data with ND samples, where xi is i-th instance in
image set X; yi ∈RNi×K represents the Ni relationships in the
i-th image, and its element yij ∈RK is a K dimension one-
hot vector denoting the label of j-th relationship in xi. For the
observed data D, we denote the extracted relationship features as
R = {ri}ND
i=1; ri ∈RNi×d represents the Ni relationship features
extracted from image xi, while rij ∈Rd denotes the feature
of the j-th relationship. Following the batch-based training
procedure, each iteration comprises multiple batches of equal
size. We define the b-th batch in the t-th iteration as Btb, where
t ∈Z+ denotes the iteration index and NB is the batch size;
therefore, D can be partitioned into ⌈ND/NB⌉batches in each
iteration. For simplicity, we assume ND/NB ∈Z+. Additionally,
for brevity in the following text (Section 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4), we
define [K] .= 1, 2, . . . , K to represent the set of category indices,
and separately, we use | · | to denote the length/size of the given
set/list.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
5
3.2
Spurious Correlations in SGG Task
As elucidated in Section 3.1, we focus mainly on the relationship
classifier fc instead of the object detector fo. The latter, being
pre-trained, remains frozen during training and solely extracts
relationship features from X to support fc training. However,
this training approach compromises the independence of the
relationship space for fc training. Ideally, in an independent and
identically distributed (i.i.d.) sampling scenario, relationships
should be sampled independently to ensure that the recognition
of each is unaffected by others. In reality, however, the typical
training procedures sample on a per-image basis rather than per-
relationship, resulting in similar or identical relationships within
a single image. For example, in an image with many people
sitting on chairs, the predominant relationship is ”people, sitting
on, chair.” As a result, the relationship features fo extracts from
a single image are not independent but highly correlated.
In Figure 3 (a), we depict an example with three class,
showing their feature distribution at the relationship level.
For simplicity, we assume ND/NB = 3. Hence, in an ideal
scenario, after i.i.d. sampling, the distribution within each batch
is expected to align with the original feature space distribution.
However, because relationship features are aggregated at the
image level in the SGG task, this ideal i.i.d. condition is violated.
Relationships like ”standing on” and ”eating” frequently appear
in indoor scenes, while ”flying in” is common in outdoor images,
as shown in Figure 3 (a). Additionally, there is strong co-
occurrence of relationships in SGG tasks, as illustrated in Figure
3 (b). For instance, the probability of ”growing on” co-occurring
with ”mounted on” is much higher than with ”flying on” in a
scene. As a result, even if the images are i.i.d. sampled, the
derived relationship features are dependent. Such dependency
results in the identification of a relationship being impacted
by other relationships in the image, constituting the spurious
correlation between X and Y . The detailed proof of spurious
correlations between X and Y is provided in Appendix A.
A salient pathway through which spurious correlations
clearly arise from transferring bias from X to R, consequently
misleading fc and ultimately yielding biased predictions Y :
fbias = argminf∈F RCE(fc),
(1)
where RCE is the Relationship Classification Error and RCE(·)
is a supervised kernel (e.g. cross-entropy loss). Recently, Wang
et al. [48] employed a balanced minibatch sampling strategy to
achieve Bayes-optimal classifiers by leveraging the invariance in
the underlying causal mechanisms of the data. Inspired by this
work, we give two assumptions, Assumptions 1 and 2, for the
spurious correlation in SGG tasks from the batch perspective.
Assumption 1 (Spurious correlations in a single batch). For
any relationship feature rp
tb in batch Btb, its outcome is influenced by
another feature rq
tb in the same batch. Formally, Y (rp
tb) ̸= Y (rp
tb∪rq
tb),
where Y (·) represents the prediction of the first instance in the given
feature combination.
Assumption 2 (No spurious correlations across batches). For
any relationship feature rp
tb in batch Btb, its outcome is unaffected
by any feature rq
mn from a different batch Bmn. Formally, Y (rp
tb) =
Y (rp
tb ∪rq
mn), where b ̸= m.
Assumptions 1 and 2 are foundational to this paper;
Assumption 1 posits that relationships within the same batch
influence each other, whereas Assumption 2 asserts no such
influence across different batches. The detailed mathematical
proofs supporting Assumptions 1 and 2, including the analysis
of parameter updates and the effects on the loss function, are
provided in Appendix C.
batch b
batch b+1
batch b+2
image 
space 
i.i.d.
i.i.d.
batch b
batch b+1
batch b+2
relationship
feature space
independent
dependent
(a)
(b)
across
against
covered in
flying in
from
growing on
made of
mounted on
painted on
parked on
part of
playing
says
to
walking in
across
against
covered in
flying in
from
growing on
made of
mounted on
painted on
parked on
part of
playing
says
to
walking in
0.000
5.200
10.40
15.60
20.80
26.00
Fig. 3. (a) Sampling independence of the relationship feature space and the
image space. Solid spheres,
,
, and
, denote different relationships. An
irregular closed black curve symbolizes an image. (b) Co-occurrences of
relationships in the VG150 train set; only a subset is displayed for clarity.
Theorem 1 (Bayesian optimal classifier induced by epoch
balance). The model fc trained on D is a Bayesian optimal classifier
f ∗
c , i.e. argmaxy∈[K] fc(r) = argmaxy∈[K] f ∗
c (r), if the following
two conditions hold: 1) ND = NB, 2) |rm| = |rn| (m ∈[K], n ∈
[K], m ̸= n), where rm is the feature of m-th relationship class in D.
Theorem 2 (Bayesian optimal classifier induced by batch
balance). The model fc trained on D is a Bayesian optimal classifier,
i.e. argmaxy∈[K] fc(r) = argmaxy∈[K] f ∗
c (r), if the following two
conditions hold: 1) ND/NB ∈{2, 3, 4 · · · }, 2) |rbm| = |rbn|
(b ∈[ND/NB], m ∈[K], n ∈[K], m ̸= n), where rbm represents
the features of the m-th relationship category in the b-th batch.
Assumptions 1 and 2 highlight the sources of spurious
correlations in the SGG task, thereby revealing that we only need
to balance within each batch to prevent spurious correlations. Let
us consider the simplest full batch training case where ND equals
NB. In this case, we only need to ensure that the entire dataset is
category-balanced to obtain the Bayes optimal classifier, which
is unaffected by spurious correlations (see Theorem 1). The
detailed proof of Theorem 1 can be found in Appendix D.
However,
due
to
practical
hardware
constraints,
most
training
pipelines
conform
to
batches
where
ND/NB ∈{2, 3, 4 · · · }. In such cases, achieving a Bayesian
optimal classifier merely necessitates balancing data within
each batch (see Theorem 2) [48], [52]. Based on Theorem 1,
we can easily derive Theorem 2. Even though ND ̸= NB,
the classification remains balanced within each batch, i.e.,
|rim| = |rin|. This implies that the model’s updates on each
batch will resemble those made over D, leading to the equation:
∇θLfc(Bt; θ) ≈∇θLfc(D; θ),
(2)
where ∇
and θ
correspond
to
the
gradient and
model
parameters, respectively, while Lfc denotes the loss function of
the model fc, typically the cross-entropy loss.
Owing to the similarity in the direction of updates, it can be
further ensured that after multiple iterations, the model weights
θ will gradually converge to what they would have been had
the updates been performed on D. As a result, while Theorem 2
makes use of more approximations, it still arrives at a conclusion
analogous to Theorem 1, i.e., fc is a Bayesian optimal classifier.
Unfortunately,
despite
the
potential
of
Theorem
2
in
facilitating debiased SGG, its implementation (e.g. rebalancing
strategies [13], [14]) faces significant challenges. The serious
long-tail distribution in SGG tasks makes achieving balanced
relationship
categories
within
each
training
batch
nearly
impossible. In this paper, we argue that spurious correlations in
SGG are due to the fact that the relationship features R in the
standard pipeline inevitably absorb the data bias of input X,
thereby failing to estimate a satisfactory causality of R →Y .
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
6
3.3
Reverse Causal Framework
Section 3.2 underscores the spurious correlations in the SGG task
and discusses the inadequacy of the batch balance method in
resolving this issue. In this work, we conceptualize spurious
correlations as dependencies among causal variables. We first
model the Structural Causal Model (SCM) [30], [33] for the two-
stage SGG training pipeline, which clearly follows a causal chain
structure, X →R →Y , where →denotes the causal direction, as
shown in Figure 4 (a). Hence, the relationship classifier fo in the
standard two-stage SGG framework essentially aims to estimate
the causality between R and Y , while the spurious correlations
pertain to the dependency between X and Y :
P(X, Y ) =
X
R
P(X, R, Y ) =
X
R
P(X)P(R | X)P(Y | R). (3)
Equation (3) highlights the dependency between X and Y in the
causal chain X →R →Y , resulting in spurious correlations that
negatively affect fo. Inspired by causal inference theory [27], we
model the SGG task with a reverse causal structure X →R ←Y ;
this approach inherently circumvents the spurious correlation
between X and Y , as shown in Figure 4 (b). According to the D-
Separation principle, if R is not given, X and Y are independent
since R acts as a collider, resulting in P(X, Y ) = P(X)P(Y ).
Additionally, even when R is given, the paths from X →R and
R ←Y are decoupled, preventing collider bias and maintaining
independence between X and Y . Hence, we still have:
P(X, Y ) =
X
R
P(X, R, Y )
= P(X)P(Y )
X
R
P(R | X, Y ) = P(X)P(Y ).
(4)
As depicted in Equation (4), X
and Y
are independent.
This independence does not mean that image features X are
unrelated to outcomes Y , but that relationship predictions in
a scene do not depend on other concurrent relationships. For
instance, consider a scene with N + 1 relationships; even if N of
these relationships are “sitting on,” it does not necessarily follow
that the additional one is also “sitting on.” Unfortunately, in the
existing paradigms based on chain causality, X and Y are highly
dependent, and in the example given above, another relationship
might be predicated as “sitting on,” meaning the prediction of
a instance could be influenced by other relationships, which is
the spurious correlations we focus on in this paper. Inspired by
Equation (4), to eliminate spurious correlations between X and
Y , all we need is an appropriate intervention on the confounder
R within the reconstructed reverse causal structure [27]. To
achieve this goal, our method intervenes on the relationship
features provided by fo; these obtained features can, therefore,
be regarded as independent and identically distributed samples
from the entire relationship feature space. Consequently, RcSGG
estimates a clean reverse causality, i.e. R ←Y .
To estimate the reverse causality R ←Y , we propose Active
Reverse Estimation (ARE), inspired by the Active Learning (AL)
paradigm [34], [35], [36]. Our main insight is that R ←Y
signifies that the relationship features R are derived from the
predictions Y , which is highly similar to the fundamental
concept of AL, i.e. model-to-data, where the sampling process
in the current AL round is often guided by the model results
obtained from the previous rounds. Specifically, AL acquires
a limited number of data points from the query set based on
the query conditions for model training, thereby alleviating
expensive labeling costs. Generally, the query conditions of the
current AL round are determined by the model results of the
(a)
Spurious correlations
Causal
Reverse causal
(b)
X
R
Y
X
R
Y
Fig. 4. Structural Causal Model (SCM). (a) is the causal chain structure of the
typical two-stage SGG method. (b) is the reverse causal structure we propose.
previous rounds. Readers may refer to AL literature [35], [36]
and its exploration [37] in the SGG task for more information.
Theorem
3
(Bayesian
optimal
classifier
induced
by
approximate batch balance). The model fc trained on D is a Bayesian
optimal classifier, i.e. argmaxy∈[K] fc(r) = argmaxy∈[K] f ∗
c (r),
if the following two conditions hold: 1) ND/NB ∈{2, 3, 4 · · · }, 2)
|rbm| ≈|rbn| (b ∈[ND/NB], m ∈[K], n ∈[K], m ̸= n).
In summary, ARE leverages the model-to-data paradigm of
AL to simulate reverse causality R ←Y . Although AL sampling
results are often not class-balanced because query conditions do
not apply equally to all classes, they can achieve rough balance
through adaptive adjustments in subsequent rounds [37]. This
enables ARE to optimize the relationship feature R effectively,
leading to an approximate batch balance. While this may not
fully satisfy the strict balance conditions of Theorem 2, it still
supports achieving a Bayesian optimal classifier as outlined in
Theorem 3, with a detailed proof in Appendix E.
3.3.1
Active Reverse Estimation
Section 3.2 highlights that the unobserved confounder Z
introduces spurious correlations between X and Y , and thus, the
relationship classifier fc is actually learned within a perturbed
effective parameter space FR from the parameter space F. It
should be noted that in this paper, effective parameter space
and parameter space have distinct meanings. The former refers
to the range of parameters learnable given the training data
under a specific model, while the latter denotes the set of
all possible parameter values within the model. Consequently,
FR is determined by both fc and R, whereas F is solely fc
dependent. As a result, even under ideal training conditions, the
fc cannot evade the impact of these correlations. This prompts us
to seek an effective parameter space F eR devoid of such spurious
correlations, wherein the Bayesian optimal classifier f ∗
c can be
achieved using a standard classification supervised kernel:
f ∗
c = argminfc∈Ff
R RCE(fc).
(5)
Equation (5) shows that achieving the Bayesian optimal classifier
f ∗
c necessitates the identification of the effective parameter space
F eR, governed by fc and R. In the two-stage SGG framework,
this space is composed of Spurious Correlation Error (SCE) and
Overlapping Error (OE), with OE representing the intersection of
SCE and RCE; further analysis of F eR can be found in Appendix
B. To ensure fc learns within F eR, we propose Active Reverse
Estimation (ARE), which optimizes the relationship feature R
by estimating the reverse causality R ←Y . ARE is inspired by
AL, which designs query conditions to select high-information
samples from the query set to reduce annotation costs [34], [37].
Similarly, we first establish the query set Q and design the
query conditions Qcond, both of which are conducted within
the relationship feature space, inherently avoiding spurious
correlations between X and Y . Specifically, let Q = {Qi}K′
i=1
(K′ < K), where Qi denotes all the features corresponding
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
7
to the i-th relationship. Q does not encompass all relationship
categories for two primary reasons: 1) The extreme long-tail
distribution of the SGG dataset ensures that nearly all images
in each batch include head relationship features. 2) While our
designed query condition Qcond offers some resilience against
disturbances in the distribution of the query set Q, it remains
crucial to prevent severe long-tail distribution issues within the
relationship classes of Q, as attested to in Section 4.3. Intuitively,
this can be achieved by down-sampling Q, but this sacrifices
some features. Instead, we achieve this aim by adjusting K′,
ensuring that relationship features are fully leveraged and
offering a scalable avenue for applying our method to datasets
with varying degrees of long-tail distributions.
Then, we design the query conditions Qcond to sample from
the query set Q to estimate the reverse causality R ←Y .
Inspired by the model-to-data training mode in AL, we propose
a loss-driven estimation approach that spans across batches.
Considering the consistency of query conditions across batches,
we focus on the query condition Qtb
cond of a specific batch, i.e.
the b-th batch in the t-th iteration, as well as its entire process of
reverse causality estimation. let Ltb = {Lk
tb}K′
k=1 and Lk
tb denote
the average loss of the k-th category in query set Q when training
fc with Btb. We then model the query condition Qtb
cond using the
probability distribution Ptb = {P k
tb}K′
k=1 of Ltb, where
P k
tb = exp(−αLk
tb)/
K′
X
k=1
exp(−αLk
tb),
(6)
and α here is a weight factor used to adjust the attention to
categories within different loss intervals. Qtb
cond is built upon Ptb;
therefore, Qtb
cond captures the reverse causality R ←Y , as the
relationship feature space R for the current batch is determined
by the loss of the previous batch, with the loss naturally
interpreted as the category-level training outcome Y . Based on
this observation, we model the reverse causality estimation as
sampling K′ categories from the query set Q based on the loss
probability distribution Ptb and incorporate the sampled results
into the current batch’s relationship feature space. Specifically,
for Qtb
cond, it implies that the sampling size for the corresponding
category in Q is Ntb = {enk
tb}K′
k=1, where
enk
tb = λP k
tb|Qk|,
and λ is a hyper-parameter utilized to control the order of
magnitude of the sampling process. To ensure coverage of the
entire relationship feature space, we employ a sampling without
replacement strategy from the query set Q. Once a particular
relationship feature is completely sampled, all features of that
category in D are replenished back into Q.
The reverse causality estimation consists of two steps: Step
1) Calculate the query condition Qtb
cond based on Ptb. Step 2)
Sample and integrate relationship features R+
tb = {rk+
tb }K′
k=1 into
the current batch’s feature space based on Qtb
cond. These features
are derived using the sampling kernel ξ∆(·, ·), with ∆denoting
the sampling method, focusing on the quantity and source pool
for each category. For instance, the sampled relationship feature
of k-th category in Q can be calculated as:
rk+
tb = ξ∆(Qk, enk
tb).
Intuitively, ∆in the above formula can be random sampling
(rnd).
However,
this
naive
approach
often
yields
low-
information samples. Consequently, we propose a Maximum
Information Sampling (MIS) approach (detailed in Section 3.3.2).
Thus, within our framework, rk+
tb is computed as:
rk+
tb = ξMIS(Qk, enk
tb).
(7)
(a) Overall feature space
(b) Feature space without ARE
(c) Feature space with ARE
Backcground relationship
Foreground relationship
erbg
tb
R+
tb
Fig. 5. (a) Distribution of relationship features across the entire dataset.
(b) and (c) depict the distribution of relationship features within a batch;
the former represents the original distribution, while the latter illustrates the
distribution optimized by our proposed Active Reverse Estimation (ARE).
It can be observed that rk+
tb
is sampled from Q based on the
query condition Qtb
cond, and each feature cannot be traced back
to its original image X, as the reverse causality estimation
intervenes in the feature space R. As a result, we have
P(X, Y ) = P(X)P(Y ).
Beyond the reverse causality estimation for foreground
relationships, we also observed that the SGG dataset is replete
with extensive background relationships, as depicted in Figure 1
(b). This may cause fc to misclassify foreground relationships as
background ones, i.e., fore-back bias, as discussed in Section 1.
Continuing with the example of the t-th iteration’s b-th
batch, rfg
tb and rbg
tb represent the foreground and background
relationships within the batch, respectively. For rbg
tb , we retain
only min(|rbg
tb |, enbg
tb ) background relationships, where min(·, ·)
is a computation kernel to take the minimum value of the input
at two positions. It is given that:
enbg
tb = π({enk
tb}K′
k=1 + |rfg
tb |),
and π is a hyper-parameter. Herein, {enk
tb}K′
k=1 + |rfg
tb | computes
the number of foreground relationships within the batch after
reverse causality estimation. Consequently, the aforementioned
equation aims to maintain a fixed ratio between background and
foreground relationships, specifically at π:1. Thus, the retained
background relationships erbg
tb can be sampled as:
erbg
tb = ξrnd(rbg
tb , enbg
tb ).
(8)
Here, we have an interesting observation. MIS demonstrates
significant enhancement for foreground relationships, while its
effect on background relationships closely resembles that of
random sampling, as elaborated in Section 4.3. Thus, we employ
random sampling rnd in Equation (8) to maintain high efficiency.
We argue that the intervention on background relationships
focuses on maintaining its ratio with foreground relationships
rather than on the relationships themselves. This assertion can
be validated by adjusting π, also explored in Section 4.3. Within
the t-th iteration, the relationship features Btb of the b-th batch
is eventually updated to eBtb,
eBtb = erbg
tb ∪rfg
tb ∪R+
tb,
(9)
serving as the basis for training the desired model fc. As
illustrated in Figure 5 (b), in a typical training procedure,
a batch often covers only a limited number of foreground
relationships while being inundated with numerous background
relationships. However, our proposed reverse causal estimation,
by emphasizing the impact of Y on R, significantly optimizes
this skewed relationship feature space, as seen in Figure 5 (c). It is
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
8
man-bench
woman-bench
person-bench
man-chair
woman-chair
person-chair
people-bench
glass-table
plate-table
man-motorcycle
person-sidewalk
man-sidewalk
person-street
woman-sidewalk
people-sidewalk
man-street
man-beach
person-beach
people-street
woman-street
person-snow
man-snow
person-sidewalk
man-sidewalk
man-surfboard
person-beach
man-beach
people-sidewalk
person-street
man-street
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Number of object pairs
 sitting on
 walking on
 standing on
Fig. 6. Given the distribution of object pairs under specific relationships, for
clarity, only the top 10 object pairs are displayed for each relationship.
worth mentioning that R+
tb can achieve approximate balance by
adjusting λ without sacrificing the properties of reverse causal
estimation. The trained model will, therefore, be a Bayesian
optimal classifier; see Theorem 3. Moreover, ARE depends on
Assumption 2’s premise of batch independence. Even in practical
scenarios where this assumption is not strictly satisfied, we argue
that ARE remains effective due to: 1) The local optimization of
feature spaces for each batch, driven by the dynamic condition
Qcond, minimizes disruptions between consecutive batches,
and 2) The non-replacement strategy prevents the propagation
of correlations across batches, enabling ARE to maintain its
robustness even when the ideal conditions are not fully met.
In summary, we propose ARE to intervene in the relationship
feature space during classifier training. While this method may
appear similar to the resampling methods [13], [14] reviewed in
Section 2.1, ARE distinguishes itself in three key ways:
1)
Different
sampling
drivers.
Resampling
methods
address imbalances by reweighting class frequencies through
oversampling or undersampling, whereas ARE, inspired by AL,
is loss-driven and enhances the feature space during training.
To our knowledge, ARE is the first method to leverage AL
techniques for intervening in causal relationships in SGG tasks.
2) Focus on both foreground and background relationships.
Existing resampling methods primarily focus on foreground
relationships. ARE, however, incorporates both foreground and
background relationships through reverse causal estimation,
enabling it to address both head-tail bias and fore-back bias.
3) Granularity of sampling. Resampling methods typically
focus solely on relationship distributions, overlooking the impact
of object distributions. ARE, guided by the proposed MIS,
simultaneously considers both relationship and object attributes,
ensuring that the feature space captures the maximum possible
information. Details of MIS are provided in Section 3.3.2.
3.3.2
Maximum Information Sampling
This subsection introduces Maximum Information Sampling
(MIS). The motivation for MIS arises from several unique
challenges of integrating AL concepts into SGG tasks:
1) Dual imbalances in SGG. SGG tasks are characterized by
both relationship imbalance and object imbalance, which further
propagate into object pair imbalance, as illustrated in Figure 6.
For instance, object pairs such as “<man, sitting on, bench>”
dominate the dataset, while rarer combinations are severely
underrepresented. This imbalance not only skews the sampled
feature space but also exacerbates spurious correlations, limiting
the representativeness of training batches.
2) Category-to-instance sampling gap. The query conditions
in AL are typically at the instance-level [35], [36], [37]; however,
the relationship query conditions we proposed are at the
category-level. This implies that we need to conduct instance-
level sampling from Q using category-level query conditions,
which, could result in ambiguous reverse causal estimations.
3) Integration with reverse causality. Effective sampling
in SGG must also align with the reverse causal framework
introduced.
Sampling
strategies
need
to
simultaneously
maximize mutual information and adaptively refine relationship
features (R) based on outcomes (Y ) to ensure the elimination of
spurious correlations and maintain causal consistency.
In response to these challenges, we introduce MIS, which
assesses relationship feature information using object pairs to
maximize diversity within each sampled batch. For the sake of
generality, we illustrate MIS using the k-th relationship category
as an example, where enk
tb samples are drawn from Qk. For
this category, assuming that the frequency of the object pair
< oµ, oν > in the current sampling pool is p(oµ, oν), where oµ
and oν represent the object and subject respectively, we define
its information content within Qk as −log(p(oµ, oν)). Hence, the
entropy of Qk can be formulated as:
H(Qk) = −
X
(oµ,oν)∈Qk
p(oµ, oν) log(p(oµ, oν)).
(10)
Following sampling without replacement, similarly, the entropy
of Qk is given by:
H(Qk | rk+
tb ) =
X
(oµ,oν)∈Qk
p(oµ, oν)H(Qk | oµ, oν)
= −
X
(oµ,oν)∈rk+
tb
p(oµ, oν)×
X
(oζ,oω)∈Qk
p(oζ, oω | oµ, oν) log(p(oζ, oω | oµ, oν)).
(11)
We then define the mutual information I(rk+
tb ; Qk) of rk+
tb
and
Qk, i.e., the degree of information sharing between the two sets.
I(rk+
tb ; Qk) can therefore be calculated as:
I(rk+
tb ; Qk) = H(Qk) −H(Qk | rk+
tb ).
(12)
This implies that to achieve maximum information sampling,
we merely need to select an object pair < oµ, oν >, µ ∈[K′], ν ∈
[K′] from Qk without replacement, where < oµ, oν > maximizes
I(Qk ∪{< oµ, oν >}; rk+
tb ). Hence, for each sampling iteration,
we compute the estimated mutual information gain, ∆I (oµ, oν),
for every object pair that has not been selected yet. If all object
pairs have been chosen, we reset them as unselected. ∆I (oµ, oν)
can be calculated as:
∆I(oµ, oν) = p(oµ, oν | Qk) log(
p(oµ, oν | Qk)
p(oµ | Qk) × p(oν | Qk))
+ p(oµ, oν | rk+
tb ) log(
p(oµ, oν | rk+
tb )
p(oµ | rk+
tb ) × p(oν | rk+
tb )).
(13)
We select the sample < oµmax, oνmax > with the maximum
information content in the current sampling pool, where
< oµmax, oνmax >= argmaxoµ,oν ∆I (oµ, oν) .
(14)
Ultimately, we add < oµmax, oνmax > to rk+
tb
and remove it
from Qk, repeating this process until the sample count reaches
enk
tb. Equation (14) seeks to maximize mutual information,
essential but computationally intense due to the large number
of relationships in SGG tasks. Despite setting K′ to limit Q’s
size, calculating mutual information directly remains costly.
However, maximizing diversified relationship features within
each batch is crucial for SGG tasks and aligns with batch balance
as indicated in Theorem 3. This observation provides us with
an opportunity for optimization. Specifically, we forego detailed
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
9
Algorithm 1: Maximum Information Sampling
Require: Q = {Qi}K′
i=1, Ntb = {enk
tb}K′
k=1
Ensure: R+
tb = {rk+
tb }K′
k=1
1: for k = 1 to K′
2:
rk+
tb = 0, remaining pairs = Qi
3:
while |rk+
tb | < enk
tb do
4:
get unique pairs
5:
if |rk+
tb | + |unique pairs| ≤enk
tb
6:
then add unique pairs to rk+
tb
7:
else need num = enk
tb −|rk+
tb |, randomly
select need num instances from
unique pairs and add them to rk+
tb
8:
update remaining pairs
frequency considerations of object pairs p(oµ, oν), we focus on
maximizing information by selecting unique or non-redundant
instances from Q. While ”maximum information” differs subtly
from ”maximum mutual information,” their effects are similar in
SGG contexts. Our optimized method is delineated in Algorithm
1, where we seek maximum information sampling by selecting
as diverse object pairs as possible (lines 6-7 in Algorithm 1).
3.4
Discussion
3.4.1
Compared to the Reweighting and Resampling Methods
As noted in related work, common strategies like resampling
and reweighting adjust the input or output to balance each
relationship’s impact on model training. While there are certain
similarities, our approach fundamentally differs from these
strategies. We emphasize the following two distinctions:
Elimination
of
Spurious
Correlations.
Resampling
and
reweighting adjust the contribution of different classes within
a batch. Clearly, these strategies cannot address the spurious
correlation issues in the two-stage SGG framework because 1)
all extracted relationship features can be directly traced back
to their respective images and 2) the relationships derived are
solely from a limited set of images (correlated with the batch
size), inundated with many scene-specific, similar features.
However, our method, by establishing a relationship-level query
set, can decouple the relationship from its originating image,
eliminating the scene restrictions and batch size limitations
within the batch, thereby mitigating the spurious correlation.
Direction
of
causality
estimation.
Both
reweighting
and
resampling techniques intervene with features typically based
on relationship distributions or, more advanced, by enabling
the model to learn the intervention procedure adaptively.
Regardless, these methods adhere to the intrinsic feature
extraction and processing pipeline within the original batch,
thereby
essentially
estimating
the
forward
causality
from
R →Y . In contrast, our approach emphasizes leveraging the
training results from a preceding batch as query conditions
for the relationship feature space of the current batch. As a
result, our interventions on the feature space operate based on a
reverse causality estimation, specifically, R ←Y .
3.4.2
Compared the Re-annotate Methods
Some existing works attribute fore-back bias to the mislabeling
of certain foreground relationships as background, and thus,
these studies often re-annotate background relationships [22],
[53]. For instance, NICE [22] identifies contentious background
relationships
and
reallocates
them
with
soft
foreground
labels. Clearly, our method is orthogonal to such approaches.
Intuitively, applying our method on top of re-annotation
approaches could further alleviate the fore-back bias issue,
because fore-back bias would still exist even in an ideal state
without any missing foreground relationship labels. Combining
re-annotation methods with RcSGG is part of our future work.
3.4.3
Compared to Debiased SGG for Dual Imbalance (DSDI)
DSDI [50] is the work most similar to our approach, also
addressing both fore-back bias and head-tail bias as well. For
fore-back bias, DSDI designed BR Loss to decouple background
classification from foreground relationship recognition. For
head-tail bias, BR Loss uses a weighting mechanism to prioritize
tail relationships. Despite focusing on similar challenges, our
method significantly differs from DSDI: 1) Unlike DSDI, which
processes background and foreground relationships separately,
our approach treats background relationships as a regular class,
alleviating fore-back bias by maintaining a fixed background
to foreground ratio. 2) Inspired by AL, we introduce ARE,
which updates the distribution of foreground relationships in
each batch to address fore-back bias. Importantly, the updated
distribution extends beyond individual batch contexts, helping
to disrupt spurious correlations between images and predictions,
unlike DSDI which confines its approach to weighting tail
relationships within batch boundaries.
3.4.4
Training and Testing
Training. This section discusses how to incorporate reverse
causal estimation into any SGG framework to eliminate spurious
correlations from X to Y . Importantly, within RcSGG, the reverse
estimation and the training of classifier fc are decoupled at
the batch level. For relationship features R and predictions Y ,
we denote symbols from batch b as Rb and Yb, and symbols
from batch b + 1 as Rb+1 and Yb+1. At the batch granularity,
the causal intervention and relationship classifier training occur
within separate data flows; their finer-grained structure can
be described as Yb →Rb+1 →Yb+1. Wherein, Yb →Rb+1
emphasizes the reverse causal estimation, while Rb+1 →Yb+1
denotes training the classifier fc along the forward causality
direction. Thus, for any SGG framework, by refining the feature
space R at the batch level using ARE and then training fc in
the standard procedure; typically, we can use cross-entropy loss
to supervise the training of the model. In this way, we can
effectively eliminate the spurious correlation between X and Y .
Testing. The reverse causality estimation requires relationship
labels; however, it’s important to note that this estimation
process only occurs during the training phase. In other words,
for the ARE-based SGG framework, during the testing phase, it
suffices to follow the regular data flow, X →R →Y , to obtain
predictions devoid of spurious correlations. This is because the
trained classifier f ∗
c is a Bayesian optimal classifier, learned
within a parameter space F eR that is already free of spurious
correlations, as shown in Equation (5).
4
EXPERIMENTS
4.1
Experiment Setup
Implementations. We conducted extensive experiments across
three datasets, VG150 [7], GQA [65], Open Images V6 (OI V6)
[66], and PSG, with details outlined below.
VG150 [7] is a subset of the VG dataset [40] comprising 150
object categories and 50 relationship categories. We follow the
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
10
TABLE 1
Quantitative results (mR@K) of RcSGG and baseline methods on the MotifsNet, VCTree, and Transformer backbones. AVG∆
mR denotes the mean of mR@20,
mR@50, and mR@100, while AVG♢
mR represents the mean of mR@50 and mR@100. We underline the optimal results for emphasis. Please note that the
backbone method is provided for reference only and is not included in the ranking.
PredCls
SGCls
SGDet
mR@20
mR@50
mR@100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
mR@20
mR@50
mR@100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
mR@20
mR@50
mR@100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
VG150 [7]
SSRCNN-SGG [54] (CVPR’22)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
6.1
8.4
10.0
8.2
9.2
HetSGG [55] (AAAI’23)
−
32.3
34.5
−
33.4
−
15.8
17.7
−
16.8
−
11.5
13.5
−
12.5
SQUAT [56] (CVPR’23)
−
30.9
33.4
−
32.2
−
17.5
18.8
−
18.2
−
14.1
16.5
−
15.3
CV-SGG [57] (CVPR’23)
−
32.6
36.2
−
34.4
−
−
−
−
−
−
14.6
17.0
−
15.8
PE-Net [43] (CVPR’23)
−
31.5
33.8
−
32.7
−
17.8
18.9
−
18.4
−
12.4
14.5
−
13.5
DSDI [50] (TPAMI’23)
28.5
33.6
35.5
32.5
34.6
16.6
20.4
21.4
19.5
20.9
7.7
10.3
12.1
10.0
11.2
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
12.2
15.5
16.8
14.8
16.2
7.2
9.0
9.5
8.6
9.3
5.2
7.2
8.5
7.0
7.9
HML [21] (ECCV’22)
30.1
36.3
38.7
35.0
37.5
17.1
20.8
22.1
20.0
21.5
10.8
14.6
17.3
14.2
16.0
FGPL [15] (CVPR’22)
24.3
33.0
37.5
31.6
35.3
17.1
21.3
22.5
20.3
21.9
11.1
15.4
18.2
14.9
16.8
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
35.8
39.1
−
37.5
−
21.5
22.8
−
22.2
−
15.8
18.0
−
16.9
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
32.2
33.3
−
32.8
−
17.5
18.2
−
17.9
−
11.4
13.5
−
12.5
GCL [17] (CVPR’22)
30.5
36.1
38.2
34.9
37.2
18.0
20.8
21.8
20.2
21.3
12.9
16.8
19.3
16.3
18.1
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
29.9
32.3
−
31.1
−
16.6
17.9
−
17.3
−
12.2
14.4
−
13.3
RTPB [23] (AAAI’22)
28.8
35.3
37.7
33.9
36.5
16.3
19.4
22.6
19.4
21.0
9.7
13.1
15.5
12.8
14.3
SGC+B2F [47] (ICME’23)
−
37.5
40.7
−
39.1
−
20.8
22.1
−
21.5
−
15.0
18.0
−
16.5
FGPL-A [58] (TPAMI’23)
28.4
38.0
42.4
36.1
40.0
20.5
24.0
25.4
23.3
24.7
13.4
18.0
21.0
17.5
19.5
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
34.9
37.0
−
36.0
−
20.8
21.8
−
21.3
−
15.5
18.2
−
16.9
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
28.1
33.2
35.2
32.2
34.2
17.1
20.8
21.9
19.9
21.4
6.4
10.1
13.9
10.1
12.0
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
35.7
38.2
−
37.0
−
17.0
18.4
−
17.7
−
13.2
15.5
−
14.4
MEET [45] (ICCV’23)
−
25.3
33.5
−
29.4
−
19.0
23.7
−
21.4
−
8.5
11.8
−
10.2
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
14.7
17.7
−
16.2
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
29.5
31.6
−
30.6
−
15.7
16.5
−
16.1
−
10.4
12.4
−
11.4
RcSGG (ours)
32.6
38.8
41.4
37.6
40.1
19.8
23.2
24.1
22.4
23.7
13.3
16.9
19.9
16.7
18.4
VCTree (backbone) [25]
12.4
15.4
16.6
14.8
16.0
6.3
7.5
8.0
7.3
7.8
4.9
6.6
7.7
6.4
7.2
HML [21] (ECCV’22)
31.0
36.9
39.2
35.7
30.1
20.5
25.0
26.8
24.1
25.9
10.1
13.7
16.3
13.4
15.0
FGPL [15] (CVPR’22)
30.8
37.5
40.2
36.2
38.9
21.9
26.2
27.6
25.2
26.9
11.9
16.2
19.1
15.7
17.7
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
37.0
39.7
−
38.4
−
19.9
21.8
−
20.9
−
12.0
14.9
−
13.5
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
33.3
33.8
−
33.6
−
21.8
22.4
−
22.1
−
11.3
13.3
−
12.3
GCL [17] (CVPR’22)
31.4
37.1
39.1
35.9
37.5
19.5
22.5
23.5
21.8
23.0
11.9
15.2
17.5
14.9
16.4
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
30.7
33.0
−
31.9
−
19.9
21.3
−
20.6
−
11.9
14.1
−
13.0
RTPB [23] (AAAI’22)
27.3
33.4
35.6
32.1
34.5
20.6
24.5
25.8
23.6
25.2
9.6
12.8
15.1
12.5
14.0
SGC+B2F [47] (ICME’23)
−
36.2
40.4
−
38.3
−
22.5
25.1
−
23.8
−
14.6
17.6
−
16.1
FGPL-A [58] (TPAMI’23)
34.5
41.6
44.3
40.1
43.0
24.1
28.8
30.6
27.8
29.7
12.2
16.9
20.0
16.4
18.5
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
35.6
37.9
−
36.8
−
26.2
27.4
−
26.8
−
15.2
17.5
−
16.4
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
30.2
34.8
37.2
34.1
36.0
22.1
25.8
27.1
25.0
26.5
6.5
9.9
13.3
9.9
11.6
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
34.5
37.2
−
35.6
−
19.1
20.8
−
20.0
−
13.1
15.5
−
14.3
MEET [45] (ICCV’23)
−
25.5
34.5
−
30.0
−
14.5
18.6
−
16.6
−
8.2
11.5
−
9.9
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
12.9
15.2
−
14.1
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
30.6
32.9
−
31.8
−
18.9
20.0
−
19.5
−
10.2
11.9
−
11.1
RcSGG (ours)
33.7
38.9
42.4
38.3
40.7
24.3
27.4
29.6
27.1
28.5
12.6
17.3
20.4
16.8
18.9
Transformer (backbone) [64]
12.4
16.0
17.5
15.3
16.8
7.7
9.6
10.2
9.2
9.9
5.3
7.3
8.8
7.1
8.1
HML [21] (ECCV’22)
30.1
36.3
38.7
35.0
37.5
17.1
20.8
22.1
20.0
21.5
10.8
14.6
17.3
14.2
16.0
FGPL [15] (CVPR’22)
24.3
33.0
37.5
31.6
35.3
17.1
21.3
22.5
20.3
21.9
11.1
15.4
18.2
14.9
16.8
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
35.8
39.1
−
37.5
−
21.5
22.8
−
22.2
−
15.8
18.0
−
16.9
FGPL-A [58] (TPAMI’23)
27.2
36.3
40.7
34.7
38.5
19.9
23.2
24.5
22.5
23.9
12.5
17.0
19.8
16.4
18.4
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
36.9
39.1
−
38.0
−
21.6
22.4
−
22.0
−
17.3
19.7
−
18.5
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
30.2
34.8
36.4
33.8
35.6
18.6
21.3
22.2
20.7
21.8
7.3
11.1
14.5
11.0
12.8
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
30.1
33.7
−
31.9
−
15.7
17.2
−
16.5
−
12.3
14.6
−
13.5
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
14.6
17.6
−
16.1
RcSGG (ours)
32.4
39.6
41.3
37.8
40.5
19.9
22.3
24.4
22.2
23.4
13.3
18.2
20.9
17.5
19.6
GQA [65]
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
11.7
15.4
16.3
14.5
15.9
6.8
8.6
9.4
8.3
9.0
4.4
6.8
8.6
6.6
7.7
GCL [17] (CVPR’22)
-
36.7
38.1
-
37.4
-
17.3
18.1
-
17.7
-
16.8
18.8
-
17.8
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
-
31.7
33.8
-
32.8
-
14.2
15.2
-
14.7
-
11.6
13.2
-
12.4
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
-
36.3
38.0
-
37.2
-
17.2
18.2
-
17.7
-
16.0
18.0
-
17.0
RcSGG (ours)
30.3
36.9
38.5
35.2
37.7
12.2
16.7
18.4
15.8
17.6
11.3
15.8
17.6
14.9
16.7
VCTree (backbone) [25]
11.9
14.3
16.2
14.1
15.3
6.8
7.3
7.8
7.3
7.6
3.8
6.1
7.4
5.7
6.8
GCL [17] (CVPR’22)
-
35.4
36.7
-
36.1
-
17.3
18.0
-
17.7
-
15.6
17.8
-
16.7
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
-
33.4
35.1
-
34.3
-
14.1
15.0
-
14.6
-
10.8
12.6
-
11.7
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
-
35.9
37.4
-
36.7
-
17.8
18.6
-
18.2
-
14.7
16.3
-
15.5
RcSGG (ours)
32.1
37.8
40.2
36.7
39.0
12.8
18.2
19.4
16.8
18.8
11.9
16.8
18.3
15.7
17.6
Transformer (backbone) [64]
12.3
15.2
17.7
15.1
16.5
7.3
8.4
9.6
8.4
9.0
5.1
6.6
7.9
6.5
7.3
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
-
27.8
29.4
-
28.6
-
16.2
16.9
-
16.6
-
13.4
15.3
-
14.4
RcSGG (ours)
31.6
37.2
39.3
36.0
38.3
13.3
18.1
19.2
16.9
18.7
11.4
16.3
17.4
15.0
16.9
split in [20], i.e., 62k training images, 5k validation images, and
26k test images.
GQA [65] is a large-scale visual question answering dataset
with images from the VG dataset and balanced question-answer
pairs. Following [17], we selected the top-200 object classes and
top-100 relationship classes, adhering to its split of 70% for
training (including a 5k validation set) and 30% for testing.
OI V6 [66] is a large dataset supporting image classification,
object detection, and visual relationship tasks. Following the
settings in [67], it includes 601 object categories and 30
relationship categories, comprising 126K training images, 2K
validation images, and 5K test images.
PSG [68] is a panoptic SGG dataset designed to overcome
the limitations of detection-based approaches in existing SGG
datasets. Unlike VG150, PSG utilizes pixel-level annotations
to achieve fine-grained object localization and reduce noise
from object overlaps. PSG dataset comprises 49k images, 133
object categories, and 56 relationship categories, supporting
segmentation-based scene graph tasks.
For all the datasets mentioned here, all experiments are
conducted following [20] and most of its settings: 1) The detector
in the framework is the Faster R-CNN [26] with the ResNeXt-
101-FPN backbone [69], pre-trained on the VG training set and
achieving 28.14 mAP on the VG test set. The detector is frozen
during the training of the SGG relationship classifier. 2) Three
popular SGG frameworks are taken including MotifsNet [5],
VCTree [25], and Transformer [64]. For MotifsNet and VCTree,
the batch size and initial learning rate are set to 12 and 0.01,
respectively, while for Transformer, they are set to 16 and
0.001. 3) For training epochs and learning rate adjustments, the
maximum number of iterations for MotifsNet and VCTree is set
to 50k, with learning rates decaying at the 30k-th and 45k-th
iterations. For Transformer, the maximum number of iterations
is set to 16k, with learning rates decaying at the 10k-th and 16k-th
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
11
iterations. 4) The hyper-parameter settings in RcSGG are π = 3,
K′ = 44, α = 0.2, and λ = 0.01. Detailed ablation studies for
these parameters are presented in Section 4.3.
Backbones and baselines. Experiments are conducted on three
classical SGG frameworks: 1) MotifsNet [5], 2) VCTree [25],
and 3) Transformer [64]. Baseline debiasing methods covering
resampling methods (e.g. TransRwt [14]), reweighting methods
(e.g. PPDL [16]), adjustment methods (e.g. RTPB [23]), and hybrid
methods (e.g. NICE [22]).
Evaluation modes and metrics. For the VG150 [7] and GQA [65],
we use three standard evaluation modes from [5], [20], [25]: 1)
Predicate Classification (PredCls), predicting relationships given
object labels and bounding boxes. 2) Scene Graph Classification
(SGCls), predicting both object labels and relationships given
bounding boxes. 3) Scene Graph Detection (SGDet), predicting
object labels, bounding boxes, and relationships. We employ
three evaluation metrics: 1) Recall rate (R@K), measuring overall
relationship recall; 2) Mean recall rate (mR@K), averaging recall
across different relationship categories; 3) Mean of R@K and
mR@K (MR@K), which calculates the average of R@K and
mR@K. In these metrics, ”K” signifies the number of relationship
predictions for an individual image, commonly set to 20, 50,
or 100. Typically, biased SGG scores high on R@K but falls
short on mR@K, largely due to its predilection for a few
predominant categories, which occupy a substantial portion;
however, debiased SGG shows the inverse trend [20], [22], [24],
[61]. Thus, MR@K helps evaluate the model’s ability to balance
between frequent and rare categories.
For OI V6 [66], we report R@50 and mR@50, along with
weighted mean AP of relationships (wmAPrel) and weighted
mean AP of phrase. Following standard evaluation procedures,
we also report scorewtd, whose computation is defined as:
scorewtd = 0.2 × R@50 + 0.4 × wmAPrel + 0.4 × wmAPphr.
4.2
Main Results and Analysis
This section shows quantitative and qualitative results. The
quantitative results are categorized into quantitative results
excluding the background relationships and quantitative results
considering
the
background
relationships.
The
former
adopts
a standard evaluation procedure, where outputs related to
background relationships in the final predictions are masked,
highlighting
our
method’s
proficiency
in
addressing
the
head-tail bias. In contrast, the latter considers background
relationships as a typical category, emphasizing our method’s
capability to mitigate the fore-back bias.
Quantitative results excluding the background relationships. We
report the results via different metrics in Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4,
respectively. The results show that:
1) Across three popular SGG datasets, VG150 [7], GQA [65],
and OI V6 [66], RcSGG achieves state-of-the-art performance
on the most unbiased SGG metric mR@K, surpassing debiasing
methods built on well-known two-stage SGG backbones, as
reported in Table 1 and
4. For VG150, using Transformer as
the backbone, our method leads by 0.6% (FGPL-A [58]) to 7.6%
(CFA [61]) on the mR@100 metric under the PredCls mode. For
GQA, with MotifsNet as the backbone, the improvement ranges
from 0.2% (EICR [59]) to 3. 2% (CFA [61]) in the SGCls mode
with the same metric. For OI V6, our method outperforms others
by 0.2% (HetSGG [55]) to 2.9% (BGNN [67]) on the mR@50
metric. Moreover, compared to the recently popular one-stage
SGG backbones, our method continues to achieve state-of-the-art
performance. For instance, in the SGDet mode, RcSGG based on
a Transformer backbone outperforms these one-stage approaches
on
sitting on
standing on
walking on
laying on
0
20
40
60
80
100
MotifsNet
RcSGG (ours)
Frequency of relationship
Recall rate (R@100)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Frequency of relationship
Fig. 7. Recall rate (R@100) for representative head and tail relationships,
along with the frequency of these relationships.
by 3.9% (CV-SGG [57]) to 10.9% (SSRCNN-SGG [54]) on the
mR@100 metric. Due to partial data unavailability from some
baseline methods, additional metrics AVG∆
mR and AVG♢
mR are
introduced in Table 1, with RcSGG still maintaining the best
performance. These results further enhance the effectiveness and
robustness of our method for debiasing in SGG tasks.
2)
RcSGG
maintains
competitive
performance
on
the
category-agnostic traditional metric, R@K, as shown in Table 2.
As discussed in [5], [20], [22], [25], mR@K and R@K often have
an inverse relationship, due to the pursuit of mR@K inevitably
impairing the performance of head relationships. Despite this,
compared to other debiasing methods, RcSGG maintains a
minimal decline in the R@K metric on the VG150 dataset. For
instance, under the PredCls mode for the MotifsNet backbone,
our method experienced only a 10.6% decrease, whereas baseline
methods PPDL [16] and TransRwt [14] saw declines of 20.3%
and 17.4%, respectively.
3) RcSGG demonstrates a superior balance between head
and tail relationships, effectively managing the limitations of
both mR@K and R@K metrics, as evidenced by the new MR@K
metric—averaging R@K and mR@K—detailed in Table 3. This
metric confirms that RcSGG not only enhances the balance
but also significantly outperforms baselines like MotifsNet,
TransRwt, and PPDL. For example, for the baseline method
MotifsNet, in PredCls mode, our method outperforms TransRwt
[14] and PPDL [16] by 4.4% and 7.9%, respectively.
4) RcSGG focuses on resampling foreground and background
relationships, and Section 3.4.1 outlines how our method stands
apart from typical reweighting and resampling techniques.
Reweighting methods such as FGPL [15], PPDL [16], and GCL
[17], and resampling techniques like TransRwt [14], NICE [22],
and PSCV [60] are compared. Results show RcSGG significantly
outperforms such approaches. We attribute this enhancement to
RcSGG’s ability to diversify each batch with more relationships
than the batch size and dynamically adjust category influence
via reverse causality. In contrast, traditional reweighting and
resampling are confined to manipulating relationships within
fixed batch sizes, often limited by clustered scene relationships.
Impact of background relationships on model performance. Existing
SGG evaluation protocols often overlook outputs related to
background relationships. Specifically, while model predictions
generate a comprehensive vector that includes both background
and foreground relationships, only the foreground relationships
are retained for evaluation. This strategy aims to minimize
the distorting effects of the numerically dominant background
relationships on performance metrics. However, this evaluation
practice can obscure a significant issue: models might overly
rely on background relationships, potentially undermining the
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
12
TABLE 2
Quantitative results (R@K) of RcSGG and baseline methods on the MotifsNet, VCTree, and Transformer backbones. AVG∆
R denotes the mean of R@20,
R@50, and R@100, while AVG♢
R represents the mean of R@50 and R@100.
PredCls
SGCls
SGDet
R@20
R@50
R@100
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
R@20
R@50
R@100
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
R@20
R@50
R@100
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
VG150 [7]
SSRCNN-SGG [54] (CVPR’22)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
25.8
32.7
36.9
31.8
34.8
HetSGG [55] (AAAI’23)
−
57.1
59.4
−
58.3
−
37.6
38.5
−
38.1
−
30.2
34.5
−
32.4
SQUAT [56] (CVPR’23)
−
55.7
57.9
−
56.8
−
33.1
34.4
−
33.8
−
24.5
28.9
−
26.7
CV-SGG [57] (CVPR’23)
−
58.2
62.4
−
60.3
−
−
−
−
−
−
27.8
32.0
−
29.9
PE-Net [43] (CVPR’23)
−
64.9
67.2
−
66.1
−
39.4
40.7
−
40.1
−
30.7
35.2
−
33.0
DSDI [50] (TPAMI’23)
47.5
54.8
56.6
53.0
55.7
30.0
35.2
36.3
33.8
35.8
20.4
27.2
31.6
26.4
29.4
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
59.5
66.0
67.9
64.5
67.0
35.8
39.1
39.9
38.3
39.5
25.1
32.1
36.9
31.4
34.5
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
48.6
50.5
−
49.6
−
29.4
30.2
−
29.8
−
23.5
27.2
−
25.4
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
47.2
47.6
−
47.4
−
28.4
29.3
−
28.9
−
21.2
23.9
−
22.6
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
55.1
57.2
−
56.2
−
33.1
34.0
−
33.6
−
27.8
31.8
−
29.8
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
55.3
57.4
−
56.4
−
34.5
35.4
−
35.0
−
27.9
32.2
−
30.1
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
32.5
33.6
−
30.1
−
−
−
−
−
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
54.1
56.6
−
55.4
−
34.9
36.1
−
35.5
−
24.7
31.8
−
29.6
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
26.2
30.3
−
28.3
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
59.1
61.0
−
60.1
−
34.4
35.2
−
34.8
−
28.0
32.4
−
30.2
RcSGG (ours)
44.6
54.3
57.3
52.1
55.8
26.4
32.8
33.1
30.8
33.0
22.2
24.8
27.9
25.0
26.4
VCTree (backbone) [25]
59.8
66.2
68.1
64.7
67.2
37.0
40.5
41.4
39.6
41.0
24.7
31.5
36.2
30.8
33.9
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
48.0
49.9
−
49.0
−
30.0
30.9
−
30.5
−
23.6
27.8
−
25.7
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
47.6
48
−
47.8
−
32.1
33
−
32.6
−
20.1
22.9
−
21.5
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
55.0
56.9
−
56.0
−
37.8
39.0
−
38.4
−
27.0
30.8
−
28.9
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
56.0
57.9
−
57.0
−
39.4
40.5
−
40.0
−
26.0
30.1
−
28.1
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
34.2
35.6
−
34.9
−
−
−
−
−
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
54.7
57.2
−
56.1
−
42.4
43.5
−
43.0
−
27.1
31.2
−
29.2
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
27.1
29.8
−
28.5
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
59.1
60.9
−
60.0
−
38.4
39.4
−
38.9
−
29.0
32.7
−
30.9
RcSGG (ours)
43.3
51.2
56.8
50.4
54.0
25.7
31.1
32.6
29.8
31.9
21.6
23.1
26.2
23.6
24.7
Transformer (backbone) [64]
58.5
65.0
66.7
63.4
66.0
35.6
38.9
39.8
38.1
39.4
24.0
30.3
33.3
29.2
31.8
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
49.0
50.8
−
49.9
−
29.6
30.5
−
30.1
−
23.1
27.1
−
25.1
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
52.8
54.7
−
53.8
−
31.4
32.4
−
31.9
−
23.7
27.7
−
25.7
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
59.2
61.5
−
60.4
−
36.3
37.3
−
36.8
−
27.7
32.1
−
29.9
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
25.6
27.9
−
26.8
RcSGG (ours)
42.7
52.5
56.6
50.6
54.6
24.7
28.9
31.5
28.4
30.2
21.3
24.8
27.4
24.5
26.1
TABLE 3
Quantitative results (MR@K) of RcSGG and baseline methods on the MotifsNet, VCTree, and Transformer backbones. MR@K∆denotes the mean of AVG∆
mR
and AVG∆
R , while MR@K♢represents the mean of AVG♢
mR and AVG♢
R .
PredCls
SGCls
SGDet
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
MR@K∆
MR@K♢
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
MR@K∆
MR@K♢
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
AVG∆
R
AVG♢
R
MR@K∆
MR@K♢
VG150 [7]
SSRCNN-SGG [54] (CVPR’22)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
8.2
9.2
31.8
34.8
20.0
22.0
HetSGG [55] (AAAI’23)
−
33.4
−
58.3
−
45.9
−
16.8
−
38.1
−
27.5
−
12.5
−
32.4
−
22.5
SQUAT [56] (CVPR’23)
−
32.2
−
56.8
−
44.5
−
18.2
−
33.8
−
26.0
−
15.3
−
26.7
−
21.0
CV-SGG [57] (CVPR’23)
−
34.4
−
60.3
−
47.4
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
15.8
−
29.9
−
22.9
PE-Net [43] (CVPR’23)
−
32.7
−
66.1
−
49.4
−
18.4
−
40.1
−
29.3
−
13.5
−
33.0
−
23.3
DSDI [50] (TPAMI’23)
32.5
34.6
53.0
55.7
42.8
45.2
19.5
20.9
33.8
35.8
26.7
28.4
10.0
11.2
26.4
29.4
18.2
20.3
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
14.8
16.2
64.5
67.0
39.7
41.6
8.6
9.3
38.3
39.5
23.5
24.4
7.0
7.9
31.4
34.5
19.2
21.2
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
37.5
−
49.6
−
43.6
−
22.2
−
29.8
−
26.0
−
16.9
−
25.4
−
21.2
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
32.8
−
47.4
−
40.1
−
17.9
−
28.9
−
23.4
−
12.5
−
22.6
−
17.6
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
31.1
−
56.2
−
43.7
−
17.3
−
33.6
−
25.5
−
13.3
−
29.8
−
21.6
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
36.0
−
56.4
−
46.2
−
21.3
−
35.0
−
28.2
−
16.9
−
30.1
−
23.5
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
32.2
34.2
−
−
−
−
19.9
21.4
−
30.1
−
25.8
10.1
12.0
−
−
−
−
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
37.0
−
55.4
−
46.2
−
17.7
−
35.5
−
26.6
−
14.4
−
29.6
−
22.0
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
16.2
−
28.3
−
22.3
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
31.8
−
60.1
−
46.0
−
16.1
−
34.8
−
25.5
−
11.4
−
30.2
−
20.8
RcSGG (ours)
37.6
40.1
52.1
55.8
44.9
48.0
22.4
23.7
30.8
33.0
26.6
28.4
16.7
18.4
25.0
26.4
20.9
22.4
VCTree (backbone) [25]
14.8
16.0
64.7
67.2
39.8
41.6
7.3
7.8
39.6
41.0
23.5
24.4
6.4
7.2
30.8
33.9
18.6
20.6
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
38.4
−
49.0
−
43.7
−
20.9
−
30.5
−
25.7
−
13.5
−
25.7
−
19.6
PPDL [16] (CVPR’22)
−
33.6
−
47.8
−
40.7
−
22.1
−
32.6
−
27.4
−
12.3
−
21.5
−
16.9
NICE [22] (CVPR’22)
−
31.9
−
56.0
−
44.0
−
20.6
−
38.4
−
29.5
−
13.0
−
28.9
−
21.0
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
36.8
−
57.0
−
46.9
−
26.8
−
40.0
−
33.4
−
16.4
−
28.1
−
22.3
PSCV [60] (arXiv’23)
34.1
36.0
−
−
−
−
25.0
26.5
−
34.9
−
30.7
9.9
11.6
−
−
−
−
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
35.6
−
56.1
−
45.9
−
20.0
−
43.0
−
31.5
−
14.3
−
29.2
−
21.8
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
14.1
−
28.5
−
21.3
NICEST [63] (TPAMI’24)
−
31.8
−
60.0
−
45.9
−
19.5
−
38.9
−
29.2
−
11.1
−
30.9
−
21.0
RcSGG (ours)
38.3
40.7
50.4
54.0
44.4
47.4
27.1
28.5
29.8
31.9
28.5
30.2
16.8
18.9
23.6
24.7
20.2
21.8
Transformer (backbone) [64]
15.3
16.8
63.4
66.0
39.4
41.4
9.2
9.9
38.1
39.4
23.7
24.7
7.1
8.1
29.2
31.8
18.2
20.0
TransRwt [14] (ECCV’22)
−
37.5
−
49.9
−
43.7
−
22.2
−
30.1
−
26.2
−
16.9
−
25.1
−
21.0
EICR [59] (ICCV’23)
−
38.0
−
53.8
−
45.9
−
22.0
−
31.9
−
27.0
−
18.5
−
25.7
−
22.1
CFA [61] (ICCV’23)
−
31.9
−
60.4
−
46.2
−
16.5
−
36.8
−
26.7
−
13.5
−
29.9
−
21.7
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
16.1
−
26.8
−
21.5
RcSGG (ours)
37.8
40.5
50.6
54.6
44.2
47.6
22.2
23.4
28.4
30.2
25.3
26.8
17.5
19.6
24.5
26.1
21.0
22.9
TABLE 4
Quantitative results of RcSGG and baseline methods on OI V6 dataset.
Models
mR@50
R@50
wmAP
scorewtd
rel
phr
BGNN [67] (CVPR’21)
40.5
75.0
33.5
34.2
42.1
PCL [70] (TIP’22)
41.6
74.8
34.7
35.0
42.8
RU-Net [71] (CVPR’22)
-
76.9
35.4
34.9
43.5
PE-NET [43] (CVPR’23)
-
76.5
36.6
37.4
44.9
SSRCNN-SGG [54] (CVPR’22)
42.8
76.7
41.5
43.6
49.4
FGPL-A [58] (TPAMI’23)
-
73.4
35.9
36.8
43.8
HetSGG [55] (AAAI’23)
43.2
74.8
33.5
34.5
42.2
SQUAT [56] (CVPR’23)
-
75.8
34.9
35.9
43.5
RcSGG (ours)
43.4
77.1
39.7
42.8
48.4
learning of foreground relationships. To uncover the potential
negative influence of background relationships on SGG model
performance, we performed an additional evaluation that
includes these outputs, as shown in Table 5.
Table 5 demonstrates a significant drop in SGG model
performance
when
background
relationship
outputs
are
included,
confirming
their
disruptive
influence
on
model
learning.
For
example,
in
the
PredCls
evaluation
mode,
MotifsNet†’s mR@100 decreased from 16.8% in the standard
evaluation to 4.3%, and Transformer†’s dropped from 17.5% to
4.6%. This indicates that the performance of existing models
under standard evaluation protocols is actually contingent on
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
13
TABLE 5
Results considering the background relationships. For differentiation, MotifsNet†, VCTree†, and Transformer† denote the model’s final predictions that take
into account the output of background relationships.
PredCls
R@20
R@50
R@100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
mR@20
mR@50
mR@100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
MR@K∆
MR@K♢
MotifsNet† (backbone) [5]
5.4
10.7
18.4
8.1
11.5
0.9
2.1
4.3
1.5
2.4
4.8
7.0
RcSGG (ours)
7.4
12.6
21.5
10.0
13.8
5.0
8.8
14.9
6.9
9.6
8.5
11.7
VCTree† (backbone) [25]
5.2
9.8
18.1
7.5
11.0
1.1
2.4
4.7
1.8
2.7
4.7
6.9
RcSGG (ours)
6.8
10.3
19.8
8.6
12.3
5.7
9.3
15.7
7.5
10.2
8.1
11.3
Transformer† (backbone) [64]
5.5
11.4
19.2
8.5
12.0
0.9
2.2
4.6
1.6
2.6
5.1
7.3
RcSGG (ours)
6.7
11.7
20.3
9.2
12.9
4.8
8.4
14.4
6.6
9.2
7.9
11.1
 
pant
shoe
girl
board
on
wearing
watching
on
hand
hair
of
MotifsNet
wheel
has
pant
shoe
girl
board
sitting 
on
wearing
watching
of
hand
hair
of
RcSGG
wheel
has
pillow
cat 2
laptop
table
on
on
near
on
book
desk
on
MotifsNet
pillow
cat 2
laptop
table
 sitting on
on
behind
watching
on
book
desk
on
RcSGG
bowl
on
MotifsNet
glass
cup
plate
on
onon
table
man 1
girl
chair 2 
laptop 2
near
on
chair 1
laptop 1
man 2
has
sitting on
sitting on
bowl
on
RcSGG
glass
cup
plate
on
onon
table
man 1
girl
chair 2 
laptop 2
in front 
of
sitting 
on
chair 1
laptop 1
man 2
holding
sitting on
sitting on
hair 1
shirt 1 
has
has
phone 1
MotifsNet
man 1
man 2
hair 2
shirt 2 
phone 2
has
has
wearing
wearing
near
hair 1
shirt 1 
has
holding
phone 1
RcSGG
man 1
man 2
hair 2
shirt 2 
phone 2
has
holding
wearing
wearing
near
Fig. 8. Qualitative results of our method and baseline approach (MotifsNet [5]). Blue and red highlight consistent and inconsistent predictions, respectively.
the exclusion of background relationships. In contrast, our
method significantly enhances the model’s ability to learn
foreground relationships through interventions in the feature
space. Even under more stringent evaluation conditions that
include background relationships, our method maintains a
considerable advantage, such as surpassing VCTree† by 11.0%
on mR@100, highlighting the necessity to mitigate the impact of
background relationships in SGG model training.
Incorporating
background
relationship
outputs,
our
experimental findings highlight the inherent limitations of
current
SGG
evaluation
protocols.
This
underscores
the
motivation for our approach, which addresses the typical
oversight of background relationships in existing models.
These models might unknowingly over-rely on background
relationships, thereby obscuring the presence of fore-back bias.
Our method mitigates this bias through strategic interventions
in the feature space, enhancing model performance under
more realistic evaluation conditions. This not only confirms
the significance of fore-back bias but also demonstrates the
robustness of our approach in addressing this challenge.
Analyzing the Trade-off between R@K and mR@K. Tables 1, 2,
and
3 illustrate that RcSGG significantly improves mR@K
across
various
datasets
and
frameworks,
showcasing
its
strong debiasing capability. However, this improvement is
accompanied by a decline in R@K compared to baseline
methods. This phenomenon has been observed in many existing
debiasing studies, as they inherently shift focus from high-
frequency head relationships to low-frequency tail relationships,
a trade-off designed to address the long-tailed distribution
of relationships in SGG datasets. To better understand this
trade-off, we conduct a detailed comparison of the recall rates
(R@100) for several representative head and tail relationships,
as shown in Figure 7. From Figure 7, we observe that the
baseline method (MotifsNet) achieves higher recall for the head
relationship ”on.” This high recall is partially due to dataset
annotation practices, where annotators often simplify nuanced
relationships such as ”sitting on” or ”laying on” into the coarse-
grained relationship ”on.” This introduces noise into the dataset
and inflates the prominence of ”on.” Consequently, models like
MotifsNet, trained to optimize R@K, disproportionately favor
such coarse-grained, high-frequency relationships.
In
contrast,
RcSGG
demonstrates
significantly
higher
recall on fine-grained tail relationships, such as ”sitting on,”
”standing on,” ”walking on,” and ”laying on,” despite their
low frequencies. This improvement arises from RcSGG’s ARE
and MIS, which redistribute the model’s attention from coarse-
grained, dominant relationships to nuanced, underrepresented
ones. By refining the feature space and mitigating the influence
of spurious correlations, RcSGG enables more semantically
accurate predictions for tail relationships, enhancing mR@K at
the cost of R@K.
Qualitative results. We show certain qualitative results in
Figure 8, which demonstrate that:
1)
Our
method
can
predict
more
informative
tail
relationships, such as <cat, watching, laptop> vs. <cat, near,
laptop>, <cat, sitting on, table> vs. <cat, on, table>, and <man
1, holding, phone 1> vs. <man 1, has, phone 1>. We attribute
this to RcSGG’s proactively allowing more tail relationships to
supervise model training (see Equation (7)), thus reducing the
model’s bias towards head relationships.
2) Our method is capable of predicting relationships that are
typically overlooked, such as <pillow, behind, laptop>. In the
baseline methods, the prediction for this relationship surpasses
the recall threshold set for all relationships, and as a result, it can
be considered neglected. This misclassification often arises from
the model’s strong response to the background relationship,
which tends to average out its response to the foreground
relationships. Thus, we argue that this improvement stems
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
14
TABLE 6
The impact of Parameter π.
PredCls
R/mR@20
R/mR@50
R/mR@100
π=1.0
50.7 / 6.8
60.8 / 10.2
64.9 / 12.7
π=1.5
51.3 / 6.9
60.9 / 10.0
65.0 / 12.4
π=2.0
60.5 / 14.0
66.7 / 17.9
68.1 / 19.1
π=2.5
60.7 / 14.0
66.8 / 17.7
68.3 / 19.0
π=3.0
61.0 / 14.2
66.9 / 18.5
68.4 / 19.6
π=3.5
61.1 / 14.6
66.8 / 18.1
68.4 / 19.4
TABLE 7
The impact of Parameter K′. The ”%” denotes the proportion of instances
from the selected K′ categories in the total number of relationships.
PredCls
R/mR@20
R/mR@50
R/mR@100
K′=31 (5.0%)
46.7 / 19.3
59.3 / 26.7
61.4 / 29.5
K′=39 (10.0%)
45.9 / 25.2
58.1 / 33.8
60.2 / 37.4
K′=42 (15.2%)
45.7 / 25.4
57.7 / 34.1
59.6 / 37.7
K′=44 (20.8%)
45.7 / 25.7
57.6 / 33.9
59.9 / 37.8
K′=45 (32.1%)
48.6 / 23.8
60.1 / 32.7
63.1 / 35.8
K′=46 (39.2%)
48.9 / 22.4
60.7 / 32.1
63.8 / 34.2
from removing a large number of background relationships
during training (see Equation (8)), thereby reducing the model’s
bias towards background relationships. We also argue that the
enhancements in the above two observations share a common
origin: RcSGG’s reverse causality estimation eliminates spurious
correlations from X to Y , thus reducing the two typical biases,
head-tail bias and fore-back bias, presented in Section 1.
3) Our method effectively mitigates the influence of frequent
head relationships on less frequent relationships within the
same scene. For example, in Figure 8, the baseline method
predicts the relationship for <girl, chair2> as <girl, on, chair2>,
influenced by the numerous ”on” relationships in the scene, such
as <bowl, on, table>, <cup, on, table>, <plate, on, table>, and
<glass, on, table>. These frequent ”on” relationships dominate
the feature space, causing their features to cluster and bias
the model’s prediction. In contrast, RcSGG mitigates this issue
by refining the feature space through ARE. ARE dynamically
re-samples less frequent relationships, ensuring their features
remain distinguishable. Consequently, the refined feature space
prevents the <girl, chair2> pair from being erroneously drawn
toward the ”on” cluster and allows for the correct prediction
of the nuanced relationship <girl, sitting on, chair2>. This
improvement highlights RcSGG’s capacity to overcome head-tail
bias and predict fine-grained relationships accurately.
4.3
Hyper-parameters and Ablations
Ablate on hyper-parameters. Our method involves four hyper-
parameters: π, K′, α, and λ. λ is solely for controlling the order of
magnitude of sampling, determined by the approximate number
of K′ relationship categories in the query set Q, and is set to 0.01
in this paper. π, K′, and α are critical hyper-parameters affecting
RcSGG performance. We conducted extensive ablation studies in
Table 6, Table 7, Table 8, with the following observations:
1) Table 6 shows that when π = 3, i.e. the ratio of background
to foreground relationships is 3:1, the model achieves optimal
performance. This indicates that the large number of background
relationships due to sparse SGG annotations weakens the
model’s foreground relationship recognition ability, which is
mitigated by removing a certain proportion of background
relationships. To substantiate this, we visualized the output
logits of our approach and a baseline method in Figure 9.
The results demonstrate that background relationship logits
TABLE 8
The impact of Parameter α.
PredCls
R/mR@20
R/mR@50
R/mR@100
α=1.0
45.9 / 25.7
56.8 / 34.2
60.2 / 38.1
α=0.9
45.9 / 25.6
57.4 / 34.5
59.8 / 38.2
α=0.8
46.3 / 25.3
57.1 / 34.6
59.6 / 38.4
α=0.3
44.7 / 32.9
54.1 / 37.4
57.2 / 41.0
α=0.2
44.6 / 32.6
54.3 / 38.8
57.3 / 41.4
α=0.1
44.3 / 32.5
54.8 / 39.1
57.6 / 41.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
-8
-4
0
4
8
Average output logits
0: background relationship,  1-50:  foreground relationships
 MotifsNet  
 RcSGG  
 Zero line 
Fig. 9. Average output logits.
in the baseline method overwhelmingly dominate, weakening
the model’s response to foreground relationships (almost all
negative). In contrast, our proposed approach significantly
improves this unhealthy logit distribution, enhancing the
model’s
response
and
recognition
ability
for
foreground
relationships. Such results further indicate that fore-back bias
is a fundamental source of bias in SGG models, and that
addressing only the head-tail bias is inadequate for completely
eliminating model biases.
2) Table 7 indicates that the model achieves optimal
performance when K′ = 44, i.e. the number of categories in
Q is 44. Interestingly, increasing K′ further results in decline
in model performance, e.g. K′ = 44 vs. K′ = 45. We posit
that this phenomenon occurs because, despite the selection
of an additional category, there is an 11.3% increase in the
proportion of relationship quantities, subsequently instigating
new imbalance issues within the query set Q.
3)
Table
8
reveals
that
the
model
achieves
optimal
performance when α = 0.2. In Equation (6), α controls the
bias degree of sampling distribution; specifically, the larger α
is, the more biased the sampling is toward high-loss categories,
and vice versa. An appropriate α balances classification loss
and sampling distribution, avoiding excessive imbalance in
sampling results (e.g. α = 1).
Note that due to computational resource limitations, we
adopted a one-by-one parameter selection approach, with the
order in Table 6 - 8 representing the parameter tuning order.
Table 6 is set to remove background relationships proportionally
without interfering with foreground relationships. Table 7 is set
to π = 3, α = 1. Table 8 is set to π = 3, K′ = 44. To facilitate
future generalization, we offer the following recommendations
for hyperparameter selection: (1) For π, we recommend a value
of 3.0 (3:1 background-to-foreground ratio), which ensures
sufficient
context
from
background
relationships
without
overwhelming the model’s focus on foreground relationships.
(2) For K′, we suggest choosing a value such that the selected
relationship instances account for approximately 20% of the total
instances, striking a balance between mitigating the long-tail
distribution and preserving a diverse set of relationships. (3)
For α, a small value such as 0.2 is preferred, as it effectively
emphasizes high-loss categories while maintaining diversity in
the sampling distribution to avoid overfitting.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
15
LSC
MES
MS
RcSGG 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Mean recall rate
mR@20
mR@50
mR@100
Fig.
10.
Compared
with
classical
uncertainty-driven
active
learning
techniques, LSC, MES, and MS correspond to Least Confidence Sampling,
Maximum Entropy Sampling, and Margin Sampling, respectively.
TABLE 9
Ablation of ξbg
σ , ξfg
σ , and MIS. σ is rnd. K equals 44 with ξfg
σ
and 0 without
it, respectively.
PredCls
ξbg
σ
ξfg
σ
MIS
R/mR@20
R/mR@50
R/mR@100
✗
✗
✗
59.5 / 12.2
66.0 / 15.5
67.9 / 16.8
✓
✗
✗
61.0 / 14.2
66.9 / 18.5
68.4 / 19.6
✗
✓
✗
47.1 / 19.8
58.1 / 27.6
61.3 / 31.7
✗
✓
✓
48.8 / 17.9
59.3 / 25.5
62.4 / 27.4
✓
✓
✓
44.6 / 32.6
54.3 / 38.8
57.3 / 41.4
Ablate of core components. RcSGG includes three key designs:
Intervention on background relationships (denoted as ξbg
σ
for
brevity), interventions on foreground relationships (denoted as
ξfg
σ ), and MIS. We investigated the contributions of these designs
by controlling their hyper-parameters, with results presented
in Table 9. The experiment demonstrates that each key design
in RcSGG contributes to performance improvement. ξbg
σ
can
simultaneously enhance both R@K and mR@K, demonstrating
that interventions in background relationships can improve the
recognition performance of foreground relationships, including
both head and tail relationships. This improvement is attributed
to our method’s emphasis on learning features specific to
foreground relationships. ξfg
σ
slightly sacrifices R@K while
achieving a significant improvement in mR@K, indicating the
necessity and helpfulness of approximately balanced prospect
relationship within each batch, which is also emphasized
in our Theorem 3. Lastly, MIS consistently helps improve
mR@K, suggesting that, even for the same relationship category,
enhancing sampling informativeness by focusing on object-level
long-tail distribution benefits the SGG task.
Comparison
with
active
learning
techniques.
The
core
component, ARE, within RcSGG, is inspired by active learning.
Active learning primarily evaluates and selects high-value
unlabeled data for annotation to minimize labeling costs, as
described in references [34], [35], [36], [37]. In contrast, ARE
focuses on optimizing the feature space by sampling relationship
features based on query conditions, with each category sampled
independently and feature annotations remaining clear. While
their goals and methods vary, both ARE and active learning
share the same learning paradigm, model-to-data. Once ARE’s
query conditions are set, traditional active learning techniques
like uncertainty sampling could replace MIS. To achieve this,
one simply needs to replace MIS with ALU in Equation (7):
rk+
tb
= ξALU (Qk, enk
tb), where ALU symbolizes the uncertainty
sampling method in active learning, such as Least Confidence
Sampling [72], Maximum Entropy Sampling [73], and Margin
TABLE 10
Quantitative results of RcSGG and baseline methods on PSG dataset.
SGDet
R@20 / 50 / 100
mR@20 / 50 / 100
PSGFormer [68] (ECCV’22)
18.0/19.6/20.1
14.8/17.0/17.6
HiLo [62] (ICCV’23)
34.1/40.7/43.0
23.7/30.3/33.1
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
20.0/21.7/22.0
9.1/9.6/9.7
ADTrans [75] (AAAI’24)
17.1/18.6/19.0
17.1/18.0/18.5
RcSGG (ours)
19.4/20.3/20.7
18.6/19.2/19.3
VCTree (backbone) [25]
20.6/22.1/22.5
9.7/10.2/10.2
ADTrans [75] (AAAI’24)
17.9/19.5/19.9
18.0/18.9/19.0
RcSGG (ours)
20.7/21.3/21.4
18.8/19.4/20.1
Transformer (backbone) [64]
20.7/21.3/21.4
10.1/10.3/10.6
RcSGG (ours)
21.3/22.5/22.8
18.9/19.4/20.3
Sampling [74]. The outcomes of this substitution are presented
in Figure 10. Upon replacing MIS with ALU, we observe
a noticeable degradation in model performance. We argue
that this decline stems from the inherent data bias issues of
uncertainty-based active learning methods. Specifically, these
methods tend to oversample underrepresented categories, an
issue extensively discussed in the literature [34], [35], [36],
[37]. Given the significant object-pair imbalance in scene
graph generation tasks (see Figure 6), this exacerbates the data
skewness introduced by ALU. However, our proposed method
MIS effectively circumvents such biases by maximizing the
information of the sampling results, taking into account the
distribution of object pairs during the sampling process.
Evaluation on panoptic scene graph generation dataset. Recently,
[68] introduced the Panoptic Scene Graph Generation (PSG)
dataset. Unlike previous datasets like VG150, PSG supports
segmentation-based SGG tasks, utilizing pixel-level annotations
to locate objects. To further assess the robustness of our proposed
method, we followed the PSG dataset splitting as outlined in [68]
and utilized three baseline frameworks: MotifsNet, VCTree, and
Transformer. The experimental parameters remained consistent
with those detailed in Section 4.1, and the results are displayed
in Table 10. Table 10 shows that: 1) Our method demonstrates
strong debiasing capabilities on the PSG dataset, with increases
of 9.6%, 9.9%, and 9.7% on the mR@100 metric across the
typical SGG frameworks MotifsNet [5], VCTree [25], and
Transformer [64], respectively; 2) Our method exhibits only a
minor decline on the R@K metric, specifically decreasing by
1.3%, 1.1%, and 1.4% across these three typical SGG frameworks,
respectively. This further demonstrates that our approach does
not sacrifice the performance of head relationship category to
achieve unbiased predictions; 3) Compared to other debiasing
approaches, our method remains competitive, surpassing recent
works PSGFormer [68] and ADTrans [75] on the mR@K metric.
Although our method underperforms HiLo on the PSG dataset,
it significantly surpasses HiLo on the VG150 dataset (see Table 1).
Crucially, HiLo optimizes the model framework, whereas our
debiasing approach is model-agnostic and can complement any
existing framework. Therefore, integrating RcSGG with the HiLo
could potentially improve performance further. Additionally,
while RcSGG was originally tailored for detection-based SGG
datasets and showed strong generalization on segmentation-
based datasets, adapting it specifically for the PSG dataset could
further boost its effectiveness.
Evaluation within end-to-end SGG framework. This paper
addresses the issue of spurious correlations in two-stage SGG
frameworks, which induce two typical biases: head-tail bias
and fore-back bias. To mitigate these issues, we introduce
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
16
TABLE 11
Quantitative results of RcSGG with one-stage SGG framework on VG150
dataset.
SGDet
mR@20/50/100
AVG∆
mR
AVG♢
mR
SSR-CNN [76] (CVPR’22)
6.1/8.4/10.0
8.2
9.2
RcSGG (ours)
12.2/17.9/19.3
16.5
18.6
EGTR (backbone) [77] (CVPR’24)
5.5/7.9/10.1
7.8
9.0
RcSGG (ours)
12.5/18.3/19.8
16.9
19.1
TABLE 12
Model inference time of our proposed RcSGG and baseline frameworks on
VG150 dataset. The time reported here is s/img per device.
PredCls
mR@20/50/100
testing
training
MotifsNet (backbone) [5]
12.2/15.5/16.8
0.11825
0.11943
RcSGG (ours)
32.6/38.8/41.4
0.11792
0.12522
VCTree (backbone) [25]
12.4/15.4/16.6
0.15410
0.15526
RcSGG (ours)
33.7/38.9/42.4
0.15273
0.16347
Transformer (backbone) [64]
12.4/16.0/17.5
0.18456
0.18522
RcSGG (ours)
32.4/39.6/41.3
0.18498
0.19570
RcSGG, restructuring the causal chain into a reverse causal
structure to eliminate spurious correlations. Our approach, ARE,
optimizes relationship feature spaces for unbiased predictions.
To assess the generalizability of RcSGG, we have extended its
application to the end-to-end SGG paradigm, which combines
object detection and relationship classification in a unified
framework. Although end-to-end frameworks eliminate the
explicit separation between object detection and relationship
classification, they still implicitly construct relationship feature
spaces during their inference processes. This allows RcSGG
to optimize these spaces effectively. Experimental results in
Table 11 demonstrate that integrating RcSGG into end-to-end
frameworks improves the performance of unbiased metrics.
For example, applying RcSGG to SSR-CNN [78] and EGTR
[77] led to substantial gains in the unbiased metric AVG♢
mR,
achieving improvements of 9.4% and 10.1%, respectively. These
results validate the generalization capability of RcSGG across
different SGG paradigms. While end-to-end frameworks do not
explicitly exhibit the spurious correlations addressed in this
paper, they inherit biased feature spaces from the underlying
datasets. RcSGG effectively mitigates these biases, highlighting
its robustness and applicability beyond the two-stage paradigm.
Efficiency
Analysis.
This
section
evaluates
RcSGG’s
computational efficiency by analyzing training and inference
times, assessing the feasibility of integrating ARE and MIS into
SGG frameworks (Table 12). The evaluation results show RcSGG
increases training time by about 5% over baseline methods,
but
this
modest
overhead
leads
to
significant
debiasing
performance gains. We consider this trade-off justified given
the substantial improvement in unbiased predictions. Despite
the additional computational steps introduced by ARE and
MIS during training, our method maintains high efficiency
for several reasons. First, the query set Q is efficiently stored
as a byproduct during the initial training epoch, incurring
no extra computational cost. Second, we limit the size of the
query set Q to approximately 20% of the total relationship
features, significantly reducing the sampling overhead. Finally,
to enhance efficiency further, we optimize Maximum Mutual
Information Sampling into Maximum Information Sampling,
simplifying the process while preserving its effectiveness. These
design choices ensure that the additional computational cost
remains minimal, even as RcSGG performs sophisticated feature
refinements to mitigate spurious correlations.
Unlike the training phase, the testing phase of RcSGG incurs
no additional computational overhead. During testing, ARE is
not applied, and the process follows the standard SGG flow
(X →R →Y ). The classifier operates within the refined
parameter space F e
R, which was optimized during training to
eliminate spurious correlations. Table 12 demonstrates that the
inference time per image for RcSGG is nearly identical to that of
the baselines. Minor variations observed during testing are likely
due to system noise or hardware-related fluctuations, rather than
inherent differences in the computational requirements of the
methods. This aligns with the theoretical expectation that RcSGG
adds no additional steps to the inference process.
4.4
Discussion and Future Work
As shown in Tables 1 and 2, our method achieves state-of-
the-art results in terms of mR@K. However, there is a trade-
off with R@K compared to baseline SGG frameworks. We
argue this can be primarily attributed to two reasons: 1) By
intervening in the relationship feature space, our method boosts
the influence of tail categories on model training, preventing the
model from predominantly converging to head categories, which
inevitably impacts the performance of head relationships. 2) The
SGG datasets contain noisy annotations, typically labeling fine-
grained tail relationships as coarse-grained head relationships
and including semantically ambiguous categories.
Due to space constraints, a thorough analysis of these points
is provided in Appendix F. Importantly, the presence of noise in
SGG datasets offers crucial insights for our future work, such as
reprocessing dataset annotations; a preliminary outlook on this
is also discussed in Appendix F.
5
CONCLUSION
In this paper, we analyze how the decoupled two-stage SGG
framework leads to spurious correlation issues, subsequently
inducing at least two observable biases: head-tail bias and fore-
back bias. To address these issues, we reconstruct the causal
chain structure X
→R →Y
of the SGG model into a
reverse causal structure X →R ←Y . By estimating the
reverse causality, R ←Y , our restructured model mitigates
spurious correlations, thereby eradicating the induced model
biases. Furthermore, given the dual imbalance challenges in
the SGG task, we propose a Maximum Information Sampling
technique to enhance reverse causality estimation. Our method
achieves state-of-the-art performance on the primary metric for
debiased scene graphs, specifically the mean recall rate mR@K,
while remaining competitive in recall rate R@K. This indicates
that our method achieves a better trade-off, allowing for refined
predictions in tail relationships without overly compromising
the performance of head classifications.
As a preliminary exploration for future work, in this
paper, we analyze the semantic confusions and coarse-grained
annotations in the SGG task and discuss potential solutions. We
believe that addressing these aspects is crucial for achieving a
deep understanding of scenes.
REFERENCES
[1]
J. Johnson, R. Krishna, M. Stark, L.-J. Li, D. Shamma, M. Bernstein, and
L. Fei-Fei, “Image retrieval using scene graphs,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2015, pp. 3668–3678.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
17
[2]
X. Chang, P. Ren, P. Xu, Z. Li, X. Chen, and A. Hauptmann, “A
comprehensive survey of scene graphs: Generation and application,”
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 1–26, 2023.
[3]
T. Wang, J. Huang, H. Zhang, and Q. Sun, “Visual commonsense r-cnn,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2020, pp. 10 760–10 770.
[4]
G. Chen, J. Li, and W. Wang, “Scene graph generation with role-playing
large language models,” Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2024.
[5]
R. Zellers, M. Yatskar, S. Thomson, and Y. Choi, “Neural motifs: Scene
graph parsing with global context,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis.
Pattern Recognit., 2018, pp. 5831–5840.
[6]
J. Yang, J. Lu, S. Lee, D. Batra, and D. Parikh, “Graph r-cnn for scene
graph generation,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2018, pp. 670–685.
[7]
D. Xu, Y. Zhu, C. B. Choy, and L. Fei-Fei, “Scene graph generation
by iterative message passing,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2017, pp. 5410–5419.
[8]
V. Ramanathan, C. Li, J. Deng, W. Han, Z. Li, K. Gu, Y. Song, S. Bengio,
C. Rosenberg, and L. Fei-Fei, “Learning semantic relationships for better
action retrieval in images,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2015, pp. 1100–1109.
[9]
W. Norcliffe-Brown, S. Vafeias, and S. Parisot, “Learning conditioned
graph structures for interpretable visual question answering,” in Proc.
32nd Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 31, 2018.
[10] J. Shi, H. Zhang, and J. Li, “Explainable and explicit visual reasoning
over scene graphs,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
2019, pp. 8376–8384.
[11] X. Yang, K. Tang, H. Zhang, and J. Cai, “Auto-encoding scene graphs
for image captioning,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
2019, pp. 10 685–10 694.
[12] J. Gu, S. Joty, J. Cai, H. Zhao, X. Yang, and G. Wang, “Unpaired image
captioning via scene graph alignments,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf.
Comput. Vis., 2019, pp. 10 323–10 332.
[13] S. Khandelwal, M. Suhail, and L. Sigal, “Segmentation-grounded scene
graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2021, pp.
15 879–15 889.
[14] A. Zhang, Y. Yao, Q. Chen, W. Ji, Z. Liu, M. Sun, and T.-S. Chua, “Fine-
grained scene graph generation with data transfer,” in Proc. Eur. Conf.
Comput. Vis., 2022.
[15] X. Lyu, L. Gao, Y. Guo, Z. Zhao, H. Huang, H. T. Shen, and J. Song,
“Fine-grained predicates learning for scene graph generation,” in Proc.
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp. 19 467–19 475.
[16] W. Li, H. Zhang, Q. Bai, G. Zhao, N. Jiang, and X. Yuan, “PPDL:
Predicate probability distribution based loss for unbiased scene graph
generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp.
19 447–19 456.
[17] X. Dong, T. Gan, X. Song, J. Wu, Y. Cheng, and L. Nie, “Stacked hybrid-
attention and group collaborative learning for unbiased scene graph
generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp.
19 427–19 436.
[18] M. Suhail, A. Mittal, B. Siddiquie, C. Broaddus, J. Eledath, G. Medioni,
and L. Sigal, “Energy-based learning for scene graph generation,” in
Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2021, pp. 13 936–13 945.
[19] M.-J. Chiou, H. Ding, H. Yan, C. Wang, R. Zimmermann, and J. Feng,
“Recovering the unbiased scene graphs from the biased ones,” in Proc.
29th ACM Int. Conf. Multi., 2021, pp. 1581–1590.
[20] K. Tang, Y. Niu, J. Huang, J. Shi, and H. Zhang, “Unbiased scene graph
generation from biased training,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2020, pp. 3716–3725.
[21] Y.
Deng,
Y.
Li,
Y.
Zhang,
X.
Xiang,
J.
Wang,
J.
Chen,
and
J. Ma, “Hierarchical memory learning for fine-grained scene graph
generation,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2022.
[22] L. Li, L. Chen, Y. Huang, Z. Zhang, S. Zhang, and J. Xiao, “The devil is
in the labels: Noisy label correction for robust scene graph generation,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp. 18 869–18 878.
[23] C. Chen, Y. Zhan, B. Yu, L. Liu, Y. Luo, and B. Du, “Resistance training
using prior bias: toward unbiased scene graph generation,” in Proc.
AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., 2022.
[24] Y. Guo, L. Gao, X. Wang, Y. Hu, X. Xu, X. Lu, H. T. Shen, and
J. Song, “From general to specific: Informative scene graph generation
via balance adjustment,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2021,
pp. 16 383–16 392.
[25] K. Tang, H. Zhang, B. Wu, W. Luo, and W. Liu, “Learning to compose
dynamic tree structures for visual contexts,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2019, pp. 6619–6628.
[26] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time
object detection with region proposal networks,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 1137–1149, 2017.
[27] Pearl, Judea, “Causality,” Cambridge university press, 2009.
[28] R. Christiansen, N. Pfister, M. E. Jakobsen, N. Gnecco, and J. Peters, “A
causal framework for distribution generalization,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 44, no. 10, pp. 6614–6630, 2022.
[29] J. Pearl, “Causal diagrams for empirical research,” Biometrika, vol. 82,
no. 4, pp. 669–688, 1995.
[30] J. Pearl et al., “Models, reasoning and inference,” Cambridge, UK:
CambridgeUniversityPress, vol. 19, no. 2, 2000.
[31] Y. Luo, J. Peng, and J. Ma, “When causal inference meets deep learning,”
Nat. Mach. Intell., vol. 2, no. 8, pp. 426–427, 2020.
[32] B. Sch¨olkopf, F. Locatello, S. Bauer, N. R. Ke, N. Kalchbrenner, A. Goyal,
and Y. Bengio, “Toward causal representation learning,” Proc. of the
IEEE, vol. 109, no. 5, pp. 612–634, 2021.
[33] D.
Plecko
and
E.
Bareinboim,
“Causal
fairness
analysis,”
arXiv:2207.11385, 2022.
[34] B. Xie, L. Yuan, S. Li, C. H. Liu, and X. Cheng, “Towards fewer
annotations: Active learning via region impurity and prediction
uncertainty for domain adaptive semantic segmentation,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp. 8068–8078.
[35] O. Ben-Eliezer, M. Hopkins, C. Yang, and H. Yu, “Active learning
polynomial threshold functions,” Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst.,
2022.
[36] K. Konyushkova, R. Sznitman, and P. Fua, “Learning active learning
from data,” Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 30, 2017.
[37] S. Sun, S. Zhi, J. Heikkil¨a, and L. Liu, “Evidential uncertainty and
diversity guided active learning for scene graph generation,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., 2023.
[38] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classification
with deep convolutional neural networks,” in Int. Conf. Neural Inf.
Process. Syst., vol. 25, 2012.
[39] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman, “Very deep convolutional networks for
large-scale image recognition,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., 2014.
[40] R. Krishna, Y. Zhu, O. Groth, J. Johnson, K. Hata, J. Kravitz, S. Chen,
Y. Kalantidis, L.-J. Li, D. A. Shamma et al., “Visual genome: Connecting
language and vision using crowdsourced dense image annotations,”
Int. J. Comput. Vis., vol. 123, no. 1, pp. 32–73, 2017.
[41] A. Desai, T.-Y. Wu, S. Tripathi, and N. Vasconcelos, “Learning of visual
relations: The devil is in the tails,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput.
Vis., 2021, pp. 15 404–15 413.
[42] S. Chen, Y. Du, P. Mettes, and C. G. Snoek, “Multi-label meta
weighting for long-tailed dynamic scene graph generation,” in Proc.
ACM International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval, 2023, pp. 39–47.
[43] C. Zheng, X. Lyu, L. Gao, B. Dai, and J. Song, “Prototype-based
embedding network for scene graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2023, pp. 22 783–22 792.
[44] C. Zheng, L. Gao, X. Lyu, P. Zeng, A. El Saddik, and H. T. Shen, “Dual-
branch hybrid learning network for unbiased scene graph generation,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., 2023.
[45] G. Sudhakaran, D. S. Dhami, K. Kersting, and S. Roth, “Vision relation
transformer for unbiased scene graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF
Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 21 882–21 893.
[46] Q. Yu, J. Li, Y. Wu, S. Tang, W. Ji, and Y. Zhuang, “Visually-prompted
language model for fine-grained scene graph generation in an open
world,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 21 560–
21 571.
[47] G. Chen, L. Li, Y. Luo, and J. Xiao, “Addressing predicate overlap in
scene graph generation with semantic granularity controller,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Multimedia Expo.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 78–83.
[48] X. Wang, M. Saxon, J. Li, H. Zhang, K. Zhang, and W. Y. Wang, “Causal
balancing for domain generalization,” Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent.,
2023.
[49] S. Fan, X. Wang, Y. Mo, C. Shi, and J. Tang, “Debiasing graph neural
networks via learning disentangled causal substructure,” Int. Conf.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2022.
[50] H. Zhou, J. Zhang, T. Luo, Y. Yang, and J. Lei, “Debiased scene graph
generation for dual imbalance learning,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 45, no. 4, pp. 4274–4288, 2023.
[51] S. Sun, S. Zhi, Q. Liao, J. Heikkil¨a, and L. Liu, “Unbiased scene graph
generation via two-stage causal modeling,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal.
Mach. Intell., 2023.
[52] Y. Lu, Y.-M. Cheung, and Y. Y. Tang, “Bayes imbalance impact index: A
measure of class imbalanced data set for classification problem,” IEEE
Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst., vol. 31, no. 9, pp. 3525–3539, 2019.
[53] Y. Zhan, J. Yu, T. Yu, and D. Tao, “On exploring undetermined
relationships for visual relationship detection,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2019, pp. 5128–5137.
[54] Y. Teng and L. Wang, “Structured sparse r-cnn for direct scene graph
generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp.
19 437–19 446.
[55] K. Yoon, K. Kim, J. Moon, and C. Park, “Unbiased heterogeneous
scene graph generation with relation-aware message passing neural
network,” in Proc. AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., vol. 37, no. 3, 2023, pp. 3285–
3294.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
18
[56] D. Jung, S. Kim, W. H. Kim, and M. Cho, “Devil’s on the edges: Selective
quad attention for scene graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2023, pp. 18 664–18 674.
[57] T. Jin, F. Guo, Q. Meng, S. Zhu, X. Xi, W. Wang, Z. Mu, and
W. Song, “Fast contextual scene graph generation with unbiased context
augmentation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2023,
pp. 6302–6311.
[58] X. Lyu, L. Gao, P. Zeng, H. T. Shen, and J. Song, “Adaptive fine-grained
predicates learning for scene graph generation,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., 2023.
[59] Y. Min, A. Wu, and C. Deng, “Environment-invariant curriculum
relation learning for fine-grained scene graph generation,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 13 296–13 307.
[60] L. Zhou, J. Hu, Y. Zhou, T. L. Lam, and Y. Xu, “Peer learning for
unbiased scene graph generation,” arXiv:2301.00146, 2023.
[61] L. Li, G. Chen, J. Xiao, Y. Yang, C. Wang, and L. Chen, “Compositional
feature augmentation for unbiased scene graph generation,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 21 685–21 695.
[62] Z. Zhou, M. Shi, and H. Caesar, “Hilo: Exploiting high low frequency
relations for unbiased panoptic scene graph generation,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 21 637–21 648.
[63] L. Li, L. Chen, H. Shi, H. Zhang, Y. Yang, W. Liu, and J. Xiao, “Nicest:
Noisy label correction and training for robust scene graph generation,”
arXiv:2207.13316, 2022.
[64] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” in Int. Conf.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 30, 2017.
[65] D. A. Hudson and C. D. Manning, “Gqa: A new dataset for real-world
visual reasoning and compositional question answering,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2019, pp. 6700–6709.
[66] A. Kuznetsova, H. Rom, N. Alldrin, J. Uijlings, I. Krasin, J. Pont-Tuset,
S. Kamali, S. Popov, M. Malloci, A. Kolesnikov et al., “The open images
dataset v4: Unified image classification, object detection, and visual
relationship detection at scale,” Int. J. Comput. Vis., vol. 128, no. 7, pp.
1956–1981, 2020.
[67] R. Li, S. Zhang, B. Wan, and X. He, “Bipartite graph network with
adaptive message passing for unbiased scene graph generation,” in roc.
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2021, pp. 11 109–11 119.
[68] J. Yang, Y. Z. Ang, Z. Guo, K. Zhou, W. Zhang, and Z. Liu, “Panoptic
scene graph generation,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2022, pp. 178–
196.
[69] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for image
recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2016, pp.
770–778.
[70] L. Tao, L. Mi, N. Li, X. Cheng, Y. Hu, and Z. Chen, “Predicate correlation
learning for scene graph generation,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 31,
pp. 4173–4185, 2022.
[71] X. Lin, C. Ding, J. Zhang, Y. Zhan, and D. Tao, “Ru-net: Regularized
unrolling network for scene graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp. 19 457–19 466.
[72] Y. Shen, H. Yun, Z. C. Lipton, Y. Kronrod, and A. Anandkumar,
“Deep active learning for named entity recognition,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1707.05928, 2017.
[73] W. Luo, A. Schwing, and R. Urtasun, “Latent structured active
learning,” in Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 26, 2013.
[74] M.-F. Balcan, A. Broder, and T. Zhang, “Margin based active learning,”
in International Conference on Computational Learning Theory.
Springer,
2007, pp. 35–50.
[75] L. Li, W. Ji, Y. Wu, M. Li, Y. Qin, L. Wei, and R. Zimmermann, “Panoptic
scene graph generation with semantics-prototype learning,” in Proc.
AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., vol. 38, no. 4, 2024, pp. 3145–3153.
[76] Y. Teng and L. Wang, “Structured sparse r-cnn for direct scene graph
generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp.
19 437–19 446.
[77] J. Im, J. Nam, N. Park, H. Lee, and S. Park, “Egtr: Extracting graph from
transformer for scene graph generation,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2024, pp. 24 229–24 238.
[78] K. Kim, K. Yoon, Y. In, J. Moon, D. Kim, and C. Park, “Adaptive self-
training framework for fine-grained scene graph generation,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., 2020, pp. 1–25.
[79] A. K. Menon, S. Jayasumana, A. S. Rawat, H. Jain, A. Veit, and S. Kumar,
“Long-tail learning via logit adjustment,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn.
Represent., 2020, pp. 1–27.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
19
APPENDIX FILE TO ‘A REVERSE CAUSAL FRAMEWORK
TO
MITIGATE
SPURIOUS
CORRELATIONS
FOR
DEBIASING SCENE GRAPH GENERATION’
This Appendix provides detailed theoretical proofs for the
assumptions and theorems presented in the main paper.
Additionally, further analysis and discussions on future work
are included to offer a more comprehensive understanding of
the topics covered. Unless otherwise noted, the notations and
symbols used in this Appendix are consistent with those in the
main paper, ensuring continuity and clarity in the mathematical
discourse.
APPENDIX A: PROOF OF SPURIOUS CORRELATIONS
BETWEEN X AND Y IN SGG TASK
In this section, we provide the detailed mathematical proof
that demonstrates the existence of spurious correlations between
X and Y
in the two-stage Scene Graph Generation (SGG)
framework [5], [14], [15], [21], [22], [25], [45], [60], [62].
Specifically, we assume that the aggregated relationship
features at the image level result from an unobserved confounder
Z, with X = a1Z + ϵ1 and Y = a2Z + ϵ2, where a1 and a2
are constants, and ϵ1 and ϵ2 represent random noise terms. The
Pearson correlation coefficient between X and Y is given by:
ρ(X, Y ) =
Cov(X, Y )
p
Var(X) × Var(Y ),
(15)
where
Cov(X, Y ) = E[(a1Z + ϵ1)(a2Z + ϵ2)] −E[a1Z + ϵ1]E[a2Z + ϵ2]
= a1a2E[Z2] + a1E[Zϵ2] + a2E[ϵ1Z]+
E[ϵ1ϵ2] −a1a2E[Z]2
= a1a2E[Z2] −a1a2E[Z]2.
(16)
We, therefore, have:
ρ(X, Y ) =
a1a2E[Z2] −a1a2E[Z]2
p
(a12E[Z2] + Var(ϵ1))(a22E[Z2] + Var(ϵ2)). (17)
For the SGG task, we observe a strong co-occurrence of
relationships at the image level, as illustrated in Figure 3 (b) in
the main paper. For instance, the probability of ”growing on” co-
occurring with ”mounted on” is much higher than with ”flying on”
in a scene. Therefore, E[Z2] ̸= E[Z]2, leading to ρ(X, Y ) ̸= 0.
Yet, fc expects independent relationship features. Hence, we
argue that spurious correlations exist between X and Y .
APPENDIX
B:
MATHEMATICAL
FOUNDATIONS
OF
ACTIVE REVERSE ESTIMATION (ARE)
These section clarify how the effective parameter space F eR,
Spurious Correlation Error (SCE), Overlapping Error (OE), and
their interplay enable the Bayesian optimal classifier f ∗
c
to
mitigate spurious correlations. The effective parameter space F eR
is defined as:
F eR = {fc : |SCE(fc) −OE(fc)| ≤δ},
(18)
where SCE(fc) quantifies the errors caused by spurious
correlations in the parameter space, OE(fc) measures the
overlap between spurious correlations and residual classification
errors, and δ is a threshold that balances spurious correlation
mitigation with model flexibility. By constraining the difference
between SCE and OE, F eR ensures that the classifier focuses
on causal relationships while reducing the influence of spurious
correlations. The Spurious Correlation Error is calculated as:
SCE(fc) =
X
k∈K
Z
P(Y = k|X)
× [1 −P( ˆY = k|Y = k, X)]P(X)dX,
(19)
where P(Y = k|X) represents the true label probability given
input X, and P( ˆY = k|Y = k, X) is the model’s predicted
probability conditioned on the true label and input. This
metric evaluates the discrepancies between true and predicted
distributions under the influence of X.
The Overlapping Error measures the intersection of spurious
correlations and causal signals:
OE(fc) =
X
k∈K
ZZ
P(Y = k|R, X)
× [1 −P( ˆY = k|Y = k, R, X)]P(R, X)dRdX.
(20)
where P(Y = k|R, X) denotes the conditional probability given
relationship features R and input X, and P( ˆY = k|Y = k, R, X)
is the predicted probability conditioned on R, X, and the
true labels. Minimizing OE ensures that the parameter space
prioritizes causal signals over spurious correlations.
To achieve the Bayesian optimal classifier f ∗
c , the effective
parameter space F eR must be optimized to minimize the residual
classification error (RCE):
f ∗
c = argminfc∈Ff
R RCE(fc),
(21)
This optimization aligns the model’s focus with causal patterns,
mitigating the adverse effects of spurious correlations.
Active
Reverse
Estimation
(ARE)
is
proposed
to
operationalize
this
theoretical
framework.
ARE
estimates
the reverse causality R ←Y by designing query conditions and
actively sampling high-information relationship features. This
ensures that the classifier fc operates within F eR, minimizing
the impact of spurious correlations while enhancing the model’s
generalizability. Through ARE, the effective parameter space is
aligned with causality, ultimately enabling robust and unbiased
learning in SGG tasks.
APPENDIX C: PROOF OF ASSUMPTIONS 1 AND 2
This section provides the detailed proofs of Assumptions 1 and
2, which form the theoretical basis of our analysis in the main
paper.
Assumption 1 (Spurious correlations in a single batch). For
any relationship feature rp
tb in batch Btb, its outcome is influenced by
another feature rq
tb in the same batch. Formally, Y (rp
tb) ̸= Y (rp
tb∪rq
tb),
where Y (·) represents the prediction of the first instance in the given
feature combination.
Assumption 2 (No spurious correlations across batches). For
any relationship feature rp
tb in batch Btb, its outcome is unaffected
by any feature rq
mn from a different batch Bmn. Formally, Y (rp
tb) =
Y (rp
tb ∪rq
mn), where b ̸= m.
Proof of Assumptions 1. We assume that the conditional
probability output of the model is:
Y (X; θ) = softmax(WX + β),
(22)
where W and β are the model’s weights and bias, respectively.
Given that SGG is a classification task, we typically supervise the
model’s training with cross-entropy loss:
Lfc(Btb; θ) = −
1
|Btb|
X
(X,Y )∈Btb
log
e(w⊤X+b)
PK
k=1 e(w⊤X+b) ,
(23)
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
20
where |Btb| is the size of batch Btb. The update of model
parameters depends on the value of the loss function L; thus,
for the claim Y (rp
tb) ̸= Y (rp
tb ∪rq
tb) in Assumption 1, we only
need to prove Lfc(Btb; θ) ̸= Lfc(Btb\rq
tb; θ). Btb\rq
tb signifies
the removal of the q-th relationship category from batch Btb.
Intuitively, assume rtb is a head relationship with multiple
instances in Btb; removing it would naturally enhance the
learning of other categories, particularly tail categories. Even
if rtb has only a few instances in Btb, Lfc(Btb\rq
tb) would
still change, thereby influencing parameter updates. Based on
Equation (23), we have:
Lfc(Btb\rq
tb; θ) = −
1
|Btb| −|rq
tb|
X
(X,Y )∈Btb
(log
e(w⊤X+β)
PK
k=1 e(w⊤X+β)
−log
e(w⊤rq
tb+β)
PK
k=1 e(w⊤rq
tb+β) ).
(24)
where |rq
tb| denotes the number of the q-th relationship category
in batch Btb. Regarding Equation (24), we see that it excludes
components related to rq
tb
from the loss function of the
entire batch Btb, altering the total sum of the loss function.
Additionally, it is important to note that, compared to Equation
(23), the denominator changes from |Btb| to |Btb|−|rq
tb|, affecting
the average value of the loss. Therefore, the values of Lfc(Btb; θ)
and Lfc(Btb\rq
tb; θ) cannot be the same unless rq
tb completely
offsets the exclusion terms, which is impractical as it would
imply that rq
tb is an infinitesimally small quantity. Thus, we
arrive at the proof of Assumption 1.
Proof of Assumptions 2. Since the loss function for each
batch is calculated independently, for Btb, we have Lfc(Btb; θ),
as seen in Equation (23); for Bmn, we have:
Lfc(Bmn; θ) = −
1
|Bmn|
X
(X,Y )∈Bmn
log
e(w⊤X+β)
PK
k=1 e(w⊤X+β) ,
(25)
Gradient updates for Btb and Bmn are conducted separately,
and the update rules ensure that data within each batch only
affects its own parameter updates. Thus, the update of Btb does
not impact the loss calculation and parameter update for Bmn,
and vice versa. This leads us to the proof of Assumption 2.
APPENDIX D: PROOF OF THEOREM 1
This section provides the detailed proof for Theorem 1, which
states that the model fc trained on a category-balanced dataset D
is a Bayesian optimal classifier [48], [79], unaffected by spurious
correlations.
Theorem 1 (Bayesian optimal classifier induced by epoch
balance). The model fc trained on D is a Bayesian optimal classifier
f ∗
c , i.e. argmaxy∈[K] fc(r) = argmaxy∈[K] f ∗
c (r), if the following
two conditions hold: 1) ND = NB, 2) |rm| = |rn| (m ∈[K], n ∈
[K], m ̸= n), where rm is the feature of m-th relationship class in D.
Proof of Theorem 1. Given that ND = NB, the loss L for
each epoch is:
Lfc(D; θ) = −
2
ND(ND + 1)
ND
X
i=1
Ni
X
j=1
ˆY (rtb) log(Y (rtb)).
(26)
Wherein, ˆY (rtb) is the ground truth label for the j-th relationship
feature in image xi. Then, given that |Rim| = |Rin|, we have:
E(rk, ˆY (yk))∼D[Lfc(D; θ)] = 1
K
K
X
k=1
E(r, ˆY (yk)=k)∼D[−log fc(rk)],
(27)
where rk
represents the relationship features of the k-th
relationship category in D, with ˆY (yk) and fc(rk) denoting its
label and predicted probability, respectively. Under ideal training
condition
§, it is easy to deduce that ∀ϵ > 0, ∃N such that
∀epoch > N,
|Lfc(D; θ) −min
fc E ˆY (yk)|r[−log fc(rk)]| < ϵ.
(28)
Note
that
minfc E ˆY (yk)|r[−log fc(rk)]
minimizes
the
true
expected loss, thus corresponding to the loss of the Bayesian
optimal classifier f ∗
c . As a result, Theorem 1 can be achieved.
APPENDIX E: PROOF OF THEOREM 3
Here we provide a detailed proof to demonstrate the validity of
Theorem 3. Theorem 3 extends the idea presented in Theorem
2 by addressing the scenario where batch balance is only
approximate rather than exact. This is a more realistic condition,
as achieving perfect batch balance is often impractical due to the
inherent distributional imbalances in real-world datasets.
Theorem
3
(Bayesian
optimal
classifier
induced
by
approximate batch balance). The model fc trained on D is a Bayesian
optimal classifier, i.e. argmaxy∈[K] fc(r) = argmaxy∈[K] f ∗
c (r),
if the following two conditions hold: 1) ND/NB ∈{2, 3, 4 · · · }, 2)
|rbm| ≈|rbn| (b ∈[ND/NB], m ∈[K], n ∈[K], m ̸= n).
In the case of approximate batch balance, i.e., |rim| ≈|rin|,
we posit the existence of an upper limit δ such that:
|∇θLfc(Bi; θ) −∇θLf ∗
c (Bi; θ)| ≤δ.
(29)
Throughout
multiple
batch
training,
these
deviations
accumulate. However, since they are bounded, the model’s
updates still approximately align in the direction of f ∗
c .
Considering the accumulated error after n iterations:
n
X
i=1
|∇θLf ic(Bi; θ) −∇θLf ∗
c (Bi; θ)| ≤nδ.
(30)
It can be observed that as n increases, fc tends to converge
infinitely close to f ∗
c ; therefore, fc is a Bayesian optimal classifier
in such case.
APPENDIX F: DETAILED DISCUSSION AND FUTURE
WORK
As depicted in Table 1 and 2 in the main text, our method
achieves state-of-the-art results in terms of mR@K. However,
compared to the baseline SGG frameworks, there is a sacrifice in
R@K. We argue this can be primarily attributed to two reasons:
1) Enhanced
tail
relationships. By intervening in the
relationship feature space, our method enhances the impact of
tail categories on model training, thereby preventing the model
from predominantly converging to head categories. Given this,
we are not surprised by a decline in the model’s performance for
a handful of head categories. Considering that these categories
collectively represent nearly 50% of the total amount, even
minor perturbations in these relationships can have a significant
influence on the recall rate.
2) Semantic confusion. Some incorrect predictions arise
from semantic confusion. For example, predicting <man, wears,
shirt> as <man, wearing, shirt>. While this prediction is
§. Ideal training condition refers to the optimizer used for training that can
guide the model in reaching the global optimum. Unless specifically stated
otherwise, all assumptions and theorems in this paper are based on this
condition.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE
21
Fig. 11. The statistics of our method’s wrong predictions on the test set. In
the visualization, the red relationships signify the actual labels, while the blue
ones represent the predictions. For example, the first bar indicates that our
method predicted <man, in, shirt> as <man, wearing, shirt>.
marked as incorrect, it is important to note that having wears”
and wearing” as separate labels might be questionable since
both could represent the same relationship feature. The choice
between them could merely reflect annotator preference. This
observation highlights a limitation of our method: it does not
explicitly account for such synonymous labels, which may lead
to mismatches with the original annotations. However, we argue
that this issue stems primarily from the dataset itself rather
than being an inherent flaw of our approach. Addressing this
will require a more refined dataset annotation strategy in future
work.
3) Annotation granularity. Our method demonstrates a
strong ability to address noisy labels by predicting fine-grained
tail relationships with higher information content. For instance,
it tends to predict <man, sitting on, bench> instead of the coarser
<man, on, bench>. This behavior directly mitigates the common
noise issue in SGG datasets, as highlighted in [5], [22], where
tail relationships with greater semantic specificity are often
annotated as coarse-grained head relationships. By intervening
in the relationship feature space, our method counteracts
this
tendency,
effectively
redistributing
model
attention
towards more detailed and semantically rich relationships.
This ability to predict fine-grained relationships reflects our
method’s robustness against annotation noise, as it prioritizes
semantically accurate predictions over strict adherence to
potentially ambiguous or imprecise annotations. Although this
approach may lead to a decrease in R@K performance due
to mismatched labels, it significantly enhances the model’s
capacity to capture nuanced relationships, as evidenced by the
higher mR@K performance.
Inspired
by
the
experiments
presented
in
Figure
11,
our future endeavors will emphasize addressing the noise
in
the
SGG
dataset,
particularly
semantic
confusion
and
ambiguous labels. For semantic confusion, we believe that label
consolidation or multi-label prediction could serve as potential
solutions. For ambiguous labels, constructing a hierarchical label
representation appears promising. For instance, treating laying
on, standing on, sitting on, and walking on as sub-labels of on.
Moreover, the presence of noisy labels in the SGG dataset
causes R@K and mR@K to exhibit an inversely proportional
relationship. However, as detailed in Section 4.2 of the main
text, by intervening in the background relationships and
incorporating their associated outputs into evaluation, our
approach outperforms the baseline for both R@K and mR@K.
This improvement across dual metrics is indeed encouraging,
and it provides valuable insights for our subsequent research
endeavors.
