International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-023-01817-7
MANUSCRIPT
Importance First: Generating Scene Graph of Human Interest
Wenbin Wang1,2
¬∑ Ruiping Wang1,2
¬∑ Shiguang Shan1,2
¬∑ Xilin Chen1,2
Received: 24 August 2022 / Accepted: 9 May 2023 / Published online: 9 June 2023
¬© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023
Abstract
Scene graph aims to faithfully reveal humans‚Äô perception of image content. When humans look at a scene, they usually focus
on their interested parts in a special priority. This innate habit indicates a hierarchical preference about human perception.
Therefore, we argue to generate the Scene Graph of Interest which should be hierarchically constructed, so that the important
primary content is Ô¨Årstly presented while the secondary one is presented on demand. To achieve this goal, we propose the
Tree‚ÄìGuided Importance Ranking (TGIR) model. We represent the scene with a hierarchical structure by Ô¨Årstly detecting
objects in the scene and organizing them into a Hierarchical Entity Tree (HET) according to their spatial scale, considering that
larger objects are more likely to be noticed instantly. After that, the scene graph is generated guided by structural information of
HET which is modeled by the elaborately designed Hierarchical Contextual Propagation (HCP) module. To further highlight
the key relationship in the scene graph, all relationships are re-ranked through additionally estimating their importance by the
Relationship Ranking Module (RRM). To train RRM, the most direct way is to collect the key relationship annotation, which
is the so-called Direct Supervision scheme. As collecting annotation may be cumbersome, we further utilize two intuitive and
effective cues, visual saliency and spatial scale, and treat them as Approximate Supervision, according to the Ô¨Åndings that
these cues are positively correlated with relationship importance. With these readily available cues, the RRM is still able to
estimate the importance even without key relationship annotation. Experiments indicate that our method not only achieves
state-of-the-art performances on scene graph generation, but also is expert in mining image-speciÔ¨Åc relationships which play
a great role in serving subsequent tasks such as image captioning and cross-modal retrieval.
Keywords Key relationship ¬∑ Hierarchical entity tree ¬∑ Hierarchical contextual propagation ¬∑ Relationship ranking ¬∑ Spatial
scale ¬∑ Visual saliency
1 Introduction
In an effort to thoroughly understand a scene, the scene
graph consisting of objects as nodes and relationships as
edges has been on the way to bridge the gap between low-
B Ruiping Wang
wangruiping@ict.ac.cn
Wenbin Wang
wenbin.wang@vipl.ict.ac.cn
Shiguang Shan
sgshan@ict.ac.cn
Xilin Chen
xlchen@ict.ac.cn
1
Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing,
Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences (CAS), Beijing 100190, China
2
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049,
China
level recognition and high-level cognition, and contributes to
tasks like cross-modal retrieval (Johnson et al., 2015; Wang
et al., 2020), image captioning (Chen et al., 2020; Gu et al.,
2019; Li & Jiang, 2019; Nguyen et al., 2021; Xu et al., 2019;
Yang et al., 2019; Yao et al., 2018; Zhong et al., 2020), visual
question answering (Antol et al., 2015; Tang et al., 2019),
visual reasoning (Shi et al., 2019), image generation (Gu et
al., 2019; Herzig et al., 2020; Johnson et al., 2018) and image
editing (Dhamo et al., 2020). While previous works (Guo et
al., 2021; Li et al., 2021, 2017; Suhail et al., 2021; Tang
et al., 2020, 2019; Wang et al., 2021, 2019; Zareian et al.,
2020a; Zellers et al., 2018) have pushed this area forward,
the generated scene graph may be still far from perfect. A
scene graph is not just for being admired, but is a type of
intermediate representations for supporting applications. To
this end, the scene graph is expected to at least sketch the
major content, i.e., gist, in the scene, which is generally of
human interest. However, most generated scene graphs fail
123
2490
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 1 Scene graphs (right column) of two images with different major events generated by existing methods share similar structures (shown in
dashed regions), i.e., existing methods are deÔ¨Åcient in mining the major image-speciÔ¨Åc relationships which are usually embedded in image captions
(middle column)
in this Ô¨Åeld in practice because current methods blindly pur-
sue content integrity, bringing the side effect that the gist is
overwhelmed by a large amount of trivial ones (Li & Jiang,
2019).
Let‚Äôs study the quality of scene graph generated by one
of the mainstream methods, Motif (Zellers et al., 2018). In
Fig.1, two scene graphs shown with top-5 relationships for
two images are mostly the same although the major events in
these two images are quite different. In other words, existing
methods are deÔ¨Åcient in mining the major image-speciÔ¨Åc
relationships which are usually embedded in image caption
(colored parts of the image captions in Fig.1), but biased
towards self-evident or trivial ones (e.g., ‚ü®woman, has, head‚ü©
can be obtained from commonsense without observing the
image, and ‚ü®window, on, building‚ü©does not deserve much
attention compared with other contents in both two images).
This shortage makes current scene graph Ô¨Ålled with a large
body of relationships that are hardly concerned by humans.
Therefore, an urgently needed characteristic of a scene
graph is to assess the relationship importance and prioritize
the key relationships which form major content that humans
intend to preferentially convey. A few previous works, e.g.,
Graph R-CNN (Yang et al., 2018) and AVR (Lv et al., 2020),
consider that annotated relationships are important, and train
a light-weight binary classiÔ¨Åer to Ô¨Ålter unannotated pairs.
However, because of the universal phenomenon of long-
tailed distribution of relationships in mainstream scene graph
datasets such as Visual Genome (Krishna et al., 2017), the
annotatedpairsarenotnecessarilyimportant,butusuallytriv-
ial instead (see the statistical analysis in Sect.4.1 for further
details).
Any pair of objects in a scene can be considered rele-
vant, at least in terms of their spatial conÔ¨Ågurations. Faced
with such a massive amount of relationships, how do humans
choose them to describe the images? Given the picture (ii) in
Fig.2a which is a zoom-in sub-region of picture (i), humans
will describe it with ‚ü®woman, riding, bike‚ü©, since woman and
bike belong to the same perceptive level and their interac-
tion forms the major event in (ii). When it comes to picture
(iii), the answers would be ‚ü®woman, wearing, helmet‚ü©and
‚ü®bag, on, woman‚ü©, where helmet and bag are Ô¨Åner details
of woman and belong to an inferior perceptive level. It sug-
gests that there naturally exists a hierarchical structure about
humans‚Äô perception preference, as shown in bottom part of
Fig.2a. If we attach the scene graph to this hierarchical struc-
ture, as shown in Fig.2b, the relationships will be naturally
presented in a top-down manner and the top relationships are
especially of human interest.
Inspired by these observations, we argue that a desir-
able scene graph should be conÔ¨Ågured with a hierarchical
structure, resulting in the Scene Graph of Interest (SGoI).
In SGoI, key relationships are grounded to the top levels
of the hierarchical structure, while the secondary or trivial
relationships are grounded to the bottom levels. To achieve
this goal, we develop the Tree-Guided Importance Ranking
(TGIR) model. We Ô¨Årstly construct the Hierarchical Entity
Tree (HET) comprising of objects (as nodes), each of which
can be decomposed into a set of Ô¨Åner ones. Different tree
levels stand for the perception priority of the objects. The
structural information of HET is modeled by the elaborately
designed Hierarchical Contextual Propagation (HCP) mod-
ule. HCP takes the object features from the object detector as
input, and passes messages among sibling nodes (transversal
direction) and nodes on each root-to-leaf path (longitudinal
direction) in HET to enhance object features. In this way,
each object obtains its own perception level information and
contextual information from those closely related objects,
which will beneÔ¨Åt the importance ranking of relationships
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2491
Fig. 2 The hierarchical structure about humans‚Äô perception preference
is shown in the bottom part of a and pictures (i)‚àº(iii) illustrate a sub-
hierarchy. Our generated scene graph in b is attached to the hierarchical
structure and better capture the gist
and accuracy of relationship prediction respectively. These
enhanced object features are used to predict the Ô¨Ånal object
category and pair-wise relationship in a scene graph. In the
experiments, we will show that HET is indeed consistent with
humans perception priority, and the generated scene graph
where relationships are sorted according to their importance
could be grounded to HET well.
As the structure information of HET acts as implicit guid-
ance, we attempt to further shift the attention of the scene
graph to the key relationships with explicit guidance. We
employ a Relationship Ranking Module (RRM) to predict
an importance score for each relationship. There are two
schemes for training this module. The most direct scheme
is to collect the key relationship annotation as supervision,
i.e., the so-called Direct Supervision (D-Sup) scheme. As the
annotation is not directly available from existing datasets, we
overcome this problem by drawing support from image cap-
tion in MS-COCO (Lin et al., 2014) to extend the Visual
Genome (VG) (Krishna et al., 2017) to VG-KR dataset
which contains indicative annotation of key relationships.
Besides, the key relationship annotation makes it possible for
evaluating the performances of different models on key rela-
tionship prediction. Considering that the process of obtaining
key relationship annotation may be cumbersome, we fur-
ther introduce the Approximate Supervision (A-Sup) scheme
based on the Ô¨Åndings that some objective cues such as spa-
tial scale and visual saliency, are positively correlated with
relationship importance. In this way, reasonably ranking rela-
tionships is still feasible without key relationship annotation.
Preliminary version of this work has been published in
Wang et al. (2020). Compared with the conference version,
we have made three major extensions in this paper: First,
we present a graph-based modeling method in the proposed
HCPmodule.Itmodelsthecloselycorrelatedsiblingnodesin
HET as a sub-graph, and directly associates them to measure
their mutual effect more precisely, achieves better message
passing and feature enhancement. Second, we provide an
additional approximate supervision scheme which enables
the RRM training process when key relationship annotation
is unavailable and thus broads its application scope. Besides,
theRRMalsoworksinaslightlydifferentway,whichusesthe
contextual relationship representation rather than the visual
features from the backbone as input. Furthermore, we Ô¨Ånd
that a Self-Attention based RRM performs better than the
previous bi-directional LSTM based one. Third, more exten-
sive experiments are conducted to verify the feasibility of the
approximate supervision scheme, compare with state-of-the-
art methods, and demonstrate the value of key relationship
on more subsequent tasks, e.g., cross-modal retrieval.
2 Related Works
2.1 Scene Graph Generation
Scene graph generation (SGG) and Visual Relationship
Detection (VRD), are two most common tasks that aim at
detecting relationships between two objects. In the Ô¨Åeld of
VRD, various studies (Dai et al., 2017; Li et al., 2017; Lu
et al., 2016; Peyre et al., 2017; Yin et al., 2018; Yu et al.,
2017; Zhang et al., 2017a,b, 2019) mainly focus on detect-
ing each relationship independently rather than describing
the structure of the scene. At the very beginning, scene graph
is found useful in downstream applications including cross-
modal retrieval (Johnson et al., 2015) and image captioning
(Yang et al., 2019). A series of succeeding works struggle
to design various approaches to improve the quality of the
auto-generated scene graph. These works can be roughly
categorized into two types from the perspective of whether
it designs a speciÔ¨Åc model or proposes a model-agnostic
method:
SpeciÔ¨Åc model design Early works concentrate on design-
ing various model structures or core message passing mech-
anism for gathering contextual information and improving
123
2492
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
the features. Xu et al. (2017) employ GRU Chung et al.
(2014) to pass messages between edges and nodes. Li et al.
(2017) enrich the scene graph representation by introduc-
ing image caption and object information to jointly address
multi-tasks. Wang et al. (2019) exploit both the object-level
and relationship-level context. Zellers et al. (2018) and Tang
et al. (2019) borrow the sequential or hierarchical modeling
mechanism from LSTM Hochreiter and Schmidhuber (1997)
or TreeLSTM Tai et al. (2015) to model the graph context.
Yang et al. (2018) and Qi et al. (2019) employ the graph
neural network. The widely adopted Transformer (Vaswani
et al., 2017) is also found effective in this Ô¨Åeld (Koner et
al., 2020). Besides, some methods borrow advantages from
knowledge or commonsense (Chen et al., 2019; Gu et al.,
2019; Zareian et al., 2020a,c) to assist relationship predic-
tion. Other works like GPS-Net (Lin et al., 2020) and WSP
(Zareian et al., 2020b) distinguish subject and object role of
each entity, and encode two types of features for these two
roles.
General framework design A recent trend of SGG is to
design a model-agnostic framework or improve the loss func-
tion to tackle the long-tailed distribution problem and make
the scene graph informative, since the tail Ô¨Åne-grained pred-
icates are always overwhelmed by coarse ones and the scene
graph is not precise enough (Tang et al., 2020). Suhail et
al. (2021) creatively design the energy-based framework to
suppress the head predicates based on the mutual constraint
among predicates. Chiou et al. (2021) recover the unbiased
distributionofpredicatesbydynamicallyestimatingtheirfre-
quency. Yu et al. (2021) construct a predicate tree and predict
relationships in a coarse-to-Ô¨Åne manner. Guo et al. (2021)
compute transition probability between head and tail pred-
icates so that the head ones can be reasonably transformed
into tail ones. Li et al. (2021) adopt re-sampling strategy
during both image-level sampling and instance-level sam-
pling stage. Tang et al. (2020) propose the unbiased learning
framework from the perspective of causal inference.
Despite that most previous works mentioned above con-
centrate on Ô¨Åtting the annotation passively without thinking
whether the relationships worth being predicted, there still
exist a few works that make a meaningful attempt, Ô¨Åltering
out some worthless relationships based on their own criteria.
Liang et al. (2019) prune the dominant and easy-to-predict
relationships to alleviate the annihilation problem of rare but
meaningful relationships. Graph R-CNN (Yang et al., 2018)
and AVR Lv et al. (2020) directly suppress relationships
which are not annotated, thinking that the annotated ones
are exactly the important ones. However, this is usually not
the truth because of the long-tailed distribution problem in
scene graph datasets (Li & Jiang, 2019; Tang et al., 2020).
It is worth noting that those relationships dropped by the
above works in a hard manner are not always wrong. Most
of them conform to the scene content. If they are directly
removed, it may damage the integrity of a scene graph. In
this work, we claim that trivial relationships should not be
directly eliminated, but should be arranged after the impor-
tant ones instead, i.e., we eliminate the trivial relationships
in a soft manner. In this way, the relationships are presented
according to their importance. The most important relation-
ships will be immediately given to convey the major content
of the scene, while secondary ones are just temporarily hid-
den. Once more details of the scene are further required, the
secondary relationships are presented.
2.2 Structured Scene Parsing
Scene graph generation can be regarded as a process of struc-
tured parsing of the scene. It is generally believed that the
scene has a hierarchical structure, which means that a scene
can be Ô¨Årst decomposed into relatively independent object
clusters, and the object cluster is composed of several closely
related objects (Lin et al., 2016; Socher et al., 2011; Tang
et al., 2022). These independent objects can continue to be
decomposed into Ô¨Åner components. There are mainly two
strategies for constructing a hierarchical structure: top-down
and bottom-up strategy. Han and Zhu (2008) decompose the
scene to obtain a parse graph in a top-down manner, while
the scene structure in Lin et al. (2016); Socher et al. (2011) is
obtained by bottom-up merging from the smallest indivisible
elements. The structure is often used to assist other applica-
tions such as semantic segmentation (Sharma et al., 2015),
object recognition and detection (Zhu et al., 2011), and image
captioning (Yao et al., 2019), etc. In this work, we design a
heuristic algorithm to build the scene structure inspired by
human perception. After that, the structural information is
extracted to guide SGG in an important-to-ordinary manner.
2.3 Viusal Saliency v.s. Gist
The so-called gist in this work refers to key relationships
in a scene graph that form the major content of an image.
It may cause confusion with visual saliency. Relationships
about visual salient objects may be wrongly equated with
the key ones. We give a detailed discussion.
An extremely rich set of studies (Hou et al., 2017; Li &
Yu, 2015; Liu et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2015, 2017; Zhang
et al., 2019) focus on mining visually salient objects (high
contrast of luminance, hue, and saturation, center position
(Itti et al., 1998; Klein & Frintrop, 2011; Xie et al., 2012),
etc.). Prior works like (Pont-Tuset et al., 2020) proposes the
localized caption dataset based on the idea that each word in
a caption should be grounded, suggesting that there indeed
exists strong association between humans attention (visually
salient content) and their description (what they think impor-
tant) about an image. However, it is notable that the visually
salient content is not equal to that involved in the gist. He
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2493
He et al. (2019) explore gaze data and Ô¨Ånd that only 48%
of Ô¨Åxated objects are referred in humans‚Äô descriptions about
the image, while 95% of objects referred in descriptions are
Ô¨Åxated. It suggests that contents referred in a description
(i.e., contents that humans think important and should form
the major events/gist) are almost visually salient and reveal
where humans gaze, but what humans Ô¨Åxate (i.e., visually
salient contents) are not always what they want to convey.
Naturally, we need to emphasize that the levels in our con-
structed scene structure (HET) reÔ¨Çect the perception priority
level rather than the visual saliency. Besides, this Ô¨Ånding
supports us to obtain the indicative annotations of key rela-
tionships with the help of annotated image caption.
3 Approach
A scene graph G = {O, R} of an image I contains a set
of objects O = {oi = (ci, bi)}N
i=1, and their pairwise rela-
tionships R = {rk}M
k=1, where ci ‚ààC and C is the set of
category, bi ‚ààR4 is the bounding box. Each rk describes the
relationship between oi and o j and thus contains a predicate
pi j ‚ààP, where P is the set of predicates.
The most widely-adopted scheme to generate the scene
graph G is to extract the set of relationships from the image
without considering the importance of each relationship. Our
goal is to generate the SGoI hierarchically, whose relation-
ships are sorted according to their importance. What‚Äôs more,
the sorted relationships could be grounded to the hierarchical
structure in a top-down manner.
To achieve this goal, we present the Tree-Guided Impor-
tance Ranking (TGIR) model as illustrated in Fig.3. As
pointed out in Sect.1, a scene graph should be conÔ¨Ågured
with a hierarchical structure. We Ô¨Årst devise a heuristic hier-
archy construction method. The structural information of the
hierarchical structure is encoded to guide the scene graph
generation process. Finally, an explicit relationship impor-
tance estimation method is proposed to sort the relationships
so that they can be better grounded to the hierarchical struc-
ture. Therefore, our model consists of four main modules: (1)
a Backbone for generating object feature representations of
the scene; (2) a Hierarchical Entity Tree (HET) Construc-
tion module for generating the hierarchical structure; (3) a
Hierarchical Contextual Propagation (HCP) module for
encoding the structural information and decoding it to gen-
erate the scene graph; (4) a Relationship Ranking Module
(RRM) for sorting the relationships according to their impor-
tance. In the following sub-sections, we will present the
detailed designs of each module.
3.1 Backbone
We adopt Faster R-CNN (Ren et al., 2015) detector as the
backbone. It produces N objects and each of them has the
1024-dim visual feature vi, the category distribution vector
qi ‚ààR|C| and the bounding box bi ‚ààR4. We compute
the semantic representation of each object as zi = W(1)
e qi,
where W(1)
e
is a word embedding matrix initialized from
GloVe Pennington et al. (2014), and concatenate it with the
visual feature:
xi = [vi; zi].
(1)
The resulting feature xi ‚ààRd is used as the input feature in
later process.
3.2 HET Construction
We aim to construct the Hierarchical Entity Tree (HET)
whose top-down levels are in accordance with the perceptive
levels of humans‚Äô inherent scene parsing hierarchy. Psycho-
logical works (Navon, 1977; Biederman, 2017) have shown
that people perform rapid global scene analysis before con-
ducting more detailed local object analysis, and thus a scene
can be naturally represented by a perception related tree
structure. It is natural that a scene can be Ô¨Årstly decom-
posed into several large objects (clusters), and then these
objects (clusters) can be further decomposed into objects of
smaller-scale or components (Han & Zhu, 2008). Therefore,
the core idea for building HET is to arrange larger objects
(clusters) on top layers of HET as far as possible. Con-
cretely, HET is a multi-branch tree T with a virtual root
o0 standing for the whole image. We Ô¨Årst sort the objects
in descending order according to their spatial scale and get
the sequence {oi1, oi2, . . . , oiN }. Then the tree structure is
determined by reasonably identifying the parent node of each
object. For object oin, we consider the objects with larger size
{oim | 1 ‚â§m < n}, and compute the ratio
Pnm = I

oin, oim

A(oin)
,
(2)
where A(¬∑) denotes the size of the object and I(¬∑, ¬∑) is the
overlap area of two objects. In practice, we compute the over-
lap area of their bounding boxes. If Pnm is larger than a given
threshold T , oim will be a candidate parent node of oin since
oim contains most part of oin. If there is no candidate, the
parent node of oin is set as the root. If there are two or more
123
2494
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig.3 The framework of our TGIR model. An object detector is applied
and HET is constructed using detected objects. The object features are
fed into O-HCP and R-HCP module to obtain the contextual object and
relationship features which are decoded to predict the object category
and predicate. Furthermore, the RRM receiving two alternative types
of supervision estimates the importance to re-rank the relationships
Fig. 4 An illustration of the proposed HCP module which consists of two sub-modules, HCPL and HCPT . For an anchor object, HCPL broadcasts
the contextual information among its ancestors and descendants in bottom-up and top-down directions, while HCPT passes messages between its
sibling objects
candidates, we choose the candidate with the largest propor-
tion of the overlap area considering that it is most likely to
govern oin. A HET example is shown in Fig.2a. The node of
woman governs its details such as the bag_2 and helmet_2.
3.3 Hierarchical Contextual Propagation
As the levels of HET stand for the perception priority of
the objects, we hope to model its structural information to
guide scene graph generation. For each anchor object1 in
HET, there exists two types of objects that are most likely
1 For convenience, we use ‚Äúanchor‚Äù to refer to the target object that we
consider in following parts.
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2495
to be strongly related to it. One type is the objects on the
same root-to-leaf path with the anchor (i.e., its ancestors
and descendants). These objects are either comprised of the
anchor or subordinate to the anchor. The other type is the sib-
lings which share a same parent with the anchor. They are on
the same perceptual level with the anchor and thus humans
tend to pay attention to their relationships with the anchor.
Inspired by these observations, we propose the Hierar-
chical Contextual Propagation (HCP) module to encode the
information from two types of objects above for each anchor
object, as illustrated in Fig.4. The HCP module consists of
two sub-modules, one is the Longitudinal Contextual Prop-
agation (HCPL) sub-module for broadcasting the contextual
information along the root-to-leaf paths of HET. The other
one is the Transversal Contextual Propagation (HCPT ) sub-
module. It passes messages between sibling objects. We
design two types of HCPT sub-module, i.e., the bi-directional
LSTM based HCPT , and the multi-head graph attention
(mGAT) based HCPT . It consequently results in two types of
HCP, denoting by HCP-B and HCP-G. We will apply HCP
to encode the structural information then decode it to pre-
dict Ô¨Ånal object and predicate information which forms a
scene graph. The encoding and decoding processes are based
on HET and the object input features {xi}N
i=1 obtained in
Sect.3.1. We will detail the HCP module below.
3.3.1 Longitudinal Contextual Propagation
The structure information in HET is expected to be embedded
in all objects through the longitudinal contextual propagation
along the vertical paths. It can be regarded as the sequen-
tial dependency modeling problem which is well-solved by
LSTM Hochreiter and Schmidhuber (1997). SpeciÔ¨Åcally for
the tree structure, we adopt bidirectional multi-branch Tree-
LSTM(Taietal.,2015)(Bi-TLSTM).Eachobjecthasitsown
inputfeature x andanrandomlyinitializedhiddenstate h.For
an anchor object ot, the bidirectional process of Bi-TLSTM
will collect information from its descendants (bottom direc-
tion) and ancestors (top-down direction) respectively, so that
ot receives information about its perception level in HET and
those objects that may form dependent association with it.
Let C(t) denote the set of children of ot. the bottom-up
direction of Bi-TLSTM will collect information from the
descendants of ot, which is formulated as follows:
Àúh
‚Üë
t =

k‚ààC(t)
h‚Üë
k ,
i‚Üë
t = œÉ

W‚Üë
(i)xt + U‚Üë
(i) Àúh
‚Üë
t + b‚Üë
(i)

,
f ‚Üë
tk = œÉ

W‚Üë
( f )xt + U‚Üë
( f )h‚Üë
k + b‚Üë
( f )

, ‚àÄk ‚ààC(t),
o‚Üë
t = œÉ

W‚Üë
(o)xt + U‚Üë
(o) Àúh
‚Üë
t + b‚Üë
(o)

,
u‚Üë
t = tanh

W‚Üë
(u)xt + U‚Üë
(u) Àúh
‚Üë
t + b‚Üë
(u)

,
c‚Üë
t = i‚Üë
t ¬∑ u‚Üë
t +

k‚ààC(t)
f ‚Üë
tk ¬∑ c‚Üë
k ,
h‚Üë
t = o‚Üë
t ¬∑ tanh

c‚Üë
t

,
(3)
where W‚Üë
(¬∑), U‚Üë
(¬∑), and b‚Üë
(¬∑) are learnable parameters and œÉ
denotes sigmoid function. i‚Üë
t , f ‚Üë
tk are input gate and forget
gates that control the ratio of the information from children
that should be received or forgotten, o‚Üë
t is the output gate. The
bottom-up longitudinal contextual information of ot is saved
in the updated hidden state h‚Üë
t . It can be used for computing
longitudinal contextual information of the ancestors of ot in
following time steps, as shown in the bottom-up process in
Fig.4.
Similarly, let p(t) denote the parent of ot. The top-down
direction of Bi-TLSTM will collect information from the
ancestors of ot, which is formulated as follows:
i‚Üì
t = œÉ

W‚Üì
(i)xt + U‚Üì
(i)h‚Üì
p(t) + b‚Üì
(i)

,
f ‚Üì
t = œÉ

W‚Üì
( f )xt + U‚Üì
( f )h‚Üì
p(t) + b‚Üì
( f )

,
o‚Üì
t = œÉ

W‚Üì
(o)xt + U‚Üì
(o)h‚Üì
p(t) + b‚Üì
(o)

,
u‚Üì
t = tanh

W‚Üì
(u)xt + U‚Üì
(u)h‚Üì
p(t) + b‚Üì
(u)

,
c‚Üì
t = i‚Üì
t ¬∑ u‚Üì
t + f ‚Üì
t ¬∑ c‚Üì
p(t),
h‚Üì
t = o‚Üì
t ¬∑ tanh

c‚Üì
t

,
(4)
where i‚Üì
t , f ‚Üì
t and o‚Üì
t are the input gate, forget gate, and
output gate. Through these two processes, the longitudinal
contextual information is saved in h‚Üë
t and h‚Üì
t .
3.3.2 Transversal Contextual Propagation
In HET, apart from the dependent association among the
objects along the root-to-leaf paths, more semantic relation-
ships tend to exist among the sibling objects since they share
similar perception priority. Therefore, this transversal con-
text is modeled to strengthen the semantic information. The
most direct way is to regard it as a sequential dependency
modeling problem similar to that in Sect.3.3.1. However, as
any two sibling objects may be directly related, it is more
reasonable to model them as a graph. Therefore, we propose
two alternative schemes.
The Ô¨Årst scheme is employing the bidirectional LSTM
(Bi-LSTM) following (Zellers et al., 2018). For the anchor
object ot and its sibling objects, we Ô¨Årst arrange them into a
sequence. As the sequence order will not obviously inÔ¨Çuence
the performance, we arrange the objects from left to right
according to their horizontal coordinates of the centres of
123
2496
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 5 An illustration of the mGAT-based HCPT . Computation of transversal contextual feature for the anchor object ot on level 1 and level 2 is
illustrated in the middle column. Two heads are used in this Ô¨Ågure. The right column gives a detailed computation process
the bounding boxes. Let l(t) and r(t) denote the left and
right sibling of ot respectively. The transversal context is
constructed as:
h‚Üí
t
= LSTM(xt, h‚Üí
l(t)),
h‚Üê
t
= LSTM(xt, h‚Üê
r(t)),
(5)
The LSTM(¬∑) denotes the standard LSTM unit (Hochreiter &
Schmidhuber, 1997). The bidirectional process will collect
all sibling information which is saved in h‚Üí
t
and h‚Üê
t .
Alternatively, as sibling objects are strongly correlated
with each other, we model them as a fully connected graph
and propose the multi-head graph attention (mGAT)-based
(Velickovic et al., 2018) HCPT module. It strengthens the
capability of holistic relational understanding among each
sub-tree in the HET.
Considering a sub-tree with the root object or and its
children set C(r), let Osub = {or}  C(r) denote these
Ns = |C(r)| + 1 objects, X = {x1, x2, . . . , xNs}, xi ‚ààRd
denote their input features. We enroll the root here unless
it is the virtual root of HET, because in HET, the children
objects could not exist without their parent. There are mul-
tiple attention heads in mGAT-based HCPT and each head
can model speciÔ¨Åc correlation among the objects (Vaswani
et al., 2017). As depicted in Fig.5, in each head k among
totally K heads, for the anchor object ot ‚ààOsub and any one
object o j ‚ààOsub, j Ã∏= t, their correlation coefÔ¨Åcient ek
t j is
computed as:
ek
t j = œÉ

Wk
a

Wkxt; Wkx j
	
,
(6)
where Wk ‚ààR
d
K √ód, Wk
a ‚ààR1√ó 2d
K are projection matrices,
[; ] represents concatenation operation and œÉ denotes Leaky-
ReLU function.
The correlation coefÔ¨Åcients are normalized across objects
in Osub except the anchor object ot by softmax function, then
applied to these objects to obtain the aggregated feature. We
concatenate the aggregated features through K heads and add
it to the input feature of ot as a residual part, which results
in the Ô¨Ånal transversal contextual feature x‚àó
t of ot:
Œ±k
t j = softmax j(ek
t j) =
exp (ek
t j)

q‚àà[1,Ns],qÃ∏=t
exp (ek
tq),
x‚àó
t = xt + ConcatK
k=1
‚éõ
‚éù

j‚àà[1,Ns], jÃ∏=t
Œ±k
t j Wkx j
‚éû
‚éÝ.
(7)
3.3.3 Context Decoding for Scene Graph Inference
With the constructed HET and the HCP module, we describe
how to decode the context encoded by HCP and inference
the objects and relationships in the scene graph as illustrated
in Fig.3.
Firstly we employ a single HCP module, namely O-HCP,
to model contextual information for object recognition. The
input features are {xi}N
i=1 obtained by Eq. (1) and the outputs
are { f o
i }N
i=1, where f o
i is obtained by:
LSTM‚àíbased HCPT : f o
i = Wo[h‚Üë
i ; h‚Üì
i ; h‚Üí
i ; h‚Üê
i ],
mGAT‚àíbased HCPT : f o
i = Wo[h‚Üë
i ; h‚Üì
i ; x‚àó
i ],
(8)
where [; ] denotes concatenation and Wo is a projection
matrix. The computation process of the contextual features
above follows Sects.3.3.1 and 3.3.2.
We utilize another HCP module, namely R-HCP, to model
contextual information speciÔ¨Åcally for relationship predic-
tion. The input features are { f o
i }N
i=1 and the outputs are
denoted as { f r
i }N
i=1.
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2497
Object Decoding With these contextual features, we
decode them to predict the objects and relationships. In HET,
a child object strongly depends on its parent, i.e., informa-
tion of the parent object is helpful for prediction of the child
object. Therefore, we employ a single direction HCPL sub-
module as a decoder to predict objects in a top-down manner,
as illustrated in Fig.6. For the object oi, the decoder receives
information from its parent, using [ f o
i ; W(2)
e q p] as input,
where W(2)
e
is a word embedding matrix and q p is the pre-
dicted category distribution vector of the parent of oi. The
output feature representation hdec
i
is fed into an MLP classi-
Ô¨Åer to predict the category of oi together with the conÔ¨Ådence
si.
Predicate Decoding When predicting the predicate pi j
between oi and o j, we Ô¨Årst gather the features of oi and o j
as:
f g
i j = [Wr f r
i ; Wr f r
j],
(9)
where Wr is a projection matrix. On the other hand, we use
the union box of oi and o j to extract the visual feature f v
i j
from the image feature map with RoI pooling operation. We
also follow DRNet (Dai et al., 2017) to build the spatial fea-
ture f s
i j. The Ô¨Ånal relationship feature is obtained as:
f r
i j = f g
i j ‚ó¶( f v
i j + f s
i j),
(10)
where ‚ó¶denotes element-wise multiplication. The relation-
ship feature is fed into another MLP classiÔ¨Åer to predict
predicate and its corresponding conÔ¨Ådence si j. The conÔ¨Å-
dence Œ±i j of the relationship between oi and o j is computed
as the multiplication of the conÔ¨Ådence of subject, object,
predicate:
Œ±i j = si ¬∑ s j ¬∑ si j.
(11)
The conÔ¨Ådence is used to sort the relationship.
3.4 Relationship Ranking Module
So far, we have obtained objects and relationships in the
scene graph under the guidance of HET. During inference, to
achieve our goal that a scene graph is given in an importance-
Ô¨Årst manner, the detected relationships should be manually
attached to HET and present them exactly following the
root-to-leaf paths of HET, i.e., Ô¨Årstly giving the relationships
among objects from the top level, then giving those among
objects from the second level, etc. In this way, we can obtain
an importance-Ô¨Årst relationship sequence. However, this pro-
cess is not fully automatic. The model introduced before this
sub-section could only provide the relationship sequence by
sorting the relationships according to the conÔ¨Ådence Œ±i j. This
sequence may be not importance-Ô¨Årst because only implicit
structural information is considered when computing Œ±i j. If
wecanevaluatetheimportanceofeachrelationshipexplicitly
and enroll it into Œ±i j, the model will be able to automatically
generate the importance-Ô¨Årst relationship sequence which is
consistent with that derived from HET.
In this sub-section, we further employ a Relation Ranking
Module (RRM) to explicitly estimate the relationship impor-
tance. We intend to encode the global context among all the
relationships so that the importance of a certain relationship
can be reasonably adjusted considering the importance of
other relationships. Therefore, we feed the relationship fea-
ture f r
i j into an importance head denoted by , which is
implemented as a Self-Attention (SA) module (Vaswani et
al., 2017). The importance of the relationship is obtained as:
zi j = LN(( f r
i j)),
(12)
where LN denotes a fully connected layer. During inference,
we enroll zi j into Œ±i j so that the resulting Œ±‚àó
i j for sorting
relationships takes importance into consideration:
Œ±‚àó
i j = Œ±i j ¬∑ zi j.
(13)
RRM Training There still exists a vital problem: how to
obtain effective supervision to train RRM, as there is no
directly available supervision. We propose two alternative
schemes. The Ô¨Årst one is the so-called Direct Supervision
(D-Sup) scheme, i.e., collecting the key relationship annota-
tion as supervision. The key relationships are collected with
the assistance of image caption, based on the thinking that an
image caption almost reveals the most important content in
the image as described in Sect.2. We will introduce the anno-
tation collection process and the resulting VG-KR dataset in
Sect.4.1.
Nevertheless, as the collection process above may be cum-
bersome, we further propose the Approximate Supervision
(A-Sup) scheme, i.e., we intend to replace the key relation-
shipannotationwithsomereadilyavailablebut effectiveindi-
cators of relationship importance. Intuitively, visual saliency
and spatial scale maybe suitable cues. As analyzed in Sect.2,
regions of humans‚Äô interest can be tracked under the guid-
ance of visual saliency, although they do not always form
the major events that humans want to convey. Two exam-
ples are shown in Fig.7a, b. Besides, the spatial scale is also
an important reference for estimating the perceptive level of
objects, as shown in Fig.7c. We conduct preliminary statis-
tical analyses to verify whether these two cues are qualiÔ¨Åed
indicators.
In the Ô¨Åeld of psychology, perceptual salience is proposed,
which is the cognitive bias that predisposes individuals to
focus on items that are more prominent or emotionally strik-
ing and ignore those that are unremarkable, even though this
123
2498
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 6 An illustration of the top-down decoding process for predicting objects. In each time step, an object node receives information from its
parent and its category is predicted. Only the categories of objects on the same root-to-leaf paths with the second object on level 1 (i.e., ‚ü®man‚ü©) are
shown in this Ô¨Ågure
Fig. 7 Visually salient objects maybe important in some circumstances
as shown in (a), while may just catch one‚Äôs eyesight but will not be
thought important in other cases such as (b). The saliency maps in the
bottom of (a) and (b) are computed by Deng et al. (2018). Object with
large spatial scale (red box) is usually more important than the smaller
object (yellow box), as shown in (c)
difference is often irrelevant by objective standards. Kahne-
man et al. (1982); Bordalo et al. (2012) inspired by these
works, we put forward the so-called cognitive saliency (CS)
to measure the importance of the relationship from humans‚Äô
perspective. Considering the measurement of CS of a speciÔ¨Åc
relationship, we employ its times being referred within the
Ô¨Åve captions of each image, which can be directly obtained
from our collected VG-KR dataset (originally from MS-
COCO). Here, the total number of captions of each image
in VG-KR is 5. Naturally the value of CS ranges discretely
from 1 to 5. The spatial scale and visual saliency of a rela-
tionship rk = ‚ü®oi, pi j, o j‚ü©are deÔ¨Åned as ui +u j and vi +v j
respectively, where ui and u j denote the normalized area of
the bounding box of oi and o j, vi and v j denote the visual
saliency of oi and o j (the average saliency of the pixels
inside the bounding box which is computed by advanced
salient object detection methods, such as R3Net (Deng et al.,
2018)). If a cue is a qualiÔ¨Åed indicator, it should be propor-
tional to CS. We randomly sample 50,000 key relationships
from VG-KR and the process is repeated 3 times. In Fig.8a
and b, we draw the line charts whose Y-axis is CS and X-
axis is spatial scale or visual saliency. They are obtained by
dividing the continuous value space of spatial scale or visual
saliency into 50 intervals and averaging the CS values in each
interval. From these two line charts, we observe that spatial
scale is a qualiÔ¨Åed indicator, while visual saliency may not
strictly meet the standard because as the visual saliency of
a relationship goes up, the CS drops, i.e., the relationship
with large visual saliency is not as important as expected. To
better understand the reason, we further extract the relation-
ships with the Ô¨Årst quarter of spatial scale or visual saliency
and analyze the proportion of each relationship, as shown in
Fig.8c and d. It is observed that a large part of relationships
with large visual saliency are those between an independent
object and its components, such as hand of man, letter on
sign, and man wearing tie. Actually, these relationships are
indeed not so image-speciÔ¨Åc and convey little information.
Humans will generally overlook them. However, if the visual
saliency of an object is large, the visual saliency of its com-
ponents will be also large. It explains the phenomenon when
the visual saliency keeps increasing, the CS decreases.
From preliminary analyses above, we know that visual
saliency and spatial scale are positively correlated with the
relationship importance to a certain extent, but the visual
saliency should not be used independently. Consequently, in
our A-sup scheme, we propose to approximate the supervi-
sionusingthesetwosimplebuteffectivecues.Foreachobject
oi, we compute its normalized spatial ui and visual saliency
vi as described above. For relationship rk corresponding to
oi and o j, its importance is approximated as:
œài j = (1 ‚àíŒª)(ui + u j) + Œª(vi + v j),
(14)
whereŒªisacombinationfactoranditsvaluewillbediscussed
in Sect.4.2.3. The œài j of all relationships in the image are
collected and normalized to form a vectorized probabilistic
label .
3.5 Optimization
The loss function for model optimization is divided into two
parts. The Ô¨Årst part is the loss for object and predicate clas-
siÔ¨Åcation. We adopt the cross-entropy loss. Let yo
i and yr
i j
denote the ground truth category of object and predicate, and
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2499
Fig. 8 Analyses of spatial scale and visual saliency. (a)‚àº(b) are the line
charts which demonstrate the association between the cognitive saliency
(CS) and spatial scale / visual saliency. (c)‚àº(d) show the proportion of
each relationship with the Ô¨Årst quarter of spatial scale/visual saliency
po
i and pr
i j denote the predicted distribution of object and
predicate respectively. The po
i (yo
i ) and pr
i j(yr
i j) are the pre-
dicted probability of the ground truth categories. The loss is
deÔ¨Åned as:
Lcls = ‚àí1
Z1

i
log po
i (yo
i )
‚àí1
Z2

iÃ∏= j
log pr
i j(yr
i j).
(15)
The second part is the loss for training RRM. When using
D-Sup scheme, as the annotation is binary, i.e., a relationship
is either key or not, we use the binary cross entropy loss. Let
yi j ‚àà{0, 1} denote the ground truth. The loss function is:
LD
key = ‚àí1
Z3

iÃ∏= j
(yi j log œÉ(zi j)
+(1 ‚àíyi j) log(1 ‚àíœÉ(zi j))),
(16)
where œÉ denotes the sigmoid function.
As for A-Sup scheme, we minimize the KL-divergence
between the approximated importance, i.e., the probabilistic
label  ‚ààRM (M is the number of relationships in an image)
and the predicted importance z ‚ààRM (a vector consisting of
zi j of all relationships in an image):
LA
key = K L (softmax(z) || ) .
(17)
The overall loss function is:
L = Lcls + Œ≥ Lkey.
(18)
In the equations above, Z1, Z2, and Z3 are normalization
factors, whose values are the numbers of items that contribute
tothelossfunctioninabatch.Œ≥ denotesbalancefactor,which
is set to 1 and 1000 for D-Sup and A-Sup scheme empirically.
4 Experiments on Scene Graph Generation
In this section, we extensively evaluate our TGIR model
on three datasets. We Ô¨Årst analyse the effect of individual
modules, and then we compare our method with the state-of-
the-art methods.
4.1 Experimental Settings
Datasets: We verify the effectiveness of the proposed
method and compare with other state-of-the-art methods on
two widely used public datasets as well as our collected
datasets:
(1) VRD (Lu et al., 2016) is the benchmarking dataset for
visual relationship detection task, which contains 4000/1000
training/test images and covers 100 object categories and 70
predicate categories.
(2) Visual Genome (VG) is a large-scale dataset with rich
annotation of objects, attributes, and pairwise relationships,
containing 75,651/32,422 training/test images. During the
training stage, 5,000 images are split from the training set for
validation. We adopt the most widely used version of VG,
namely VG150 (Xu et al., 2017), which covers 150 object
categories and 50 predicates.
(3) VG200 and VG-KR are our collected datasets contain-
ing the indicative annotation of key relationships based on
VG. We associate the relationships referred in the annotated
image captions in MS-COCO with those from VG. Con-
cretely, there are 51,498 images which belong to both VG
and MS-COCO. Therefore, the annotation about the rela-
tionship and image caption on these images is available.
They form the subset named VG-COCO (VGC) and we con-
duct three-stage processing on it. (i) Stanford Scene Graph
Parser (Schuster et al., 2015) is used to extract the relation-
ships from the image captions. They make up the set of key
relationships, denoted by RK. (ii) We next cleanse the raw
relationship annotation of VGC following Xu et al. (2017),
keep the most frequent 150 object categories and 50 predi-
cates, and add another most frequent 50 object categories and
30 predicates in RK, in order to keep as many key relation-
ships as possible for the following third step. After dropping
images without relationships in VGC, we get a new subset
VG200 (i.e. 200 object categories) which contains 46,562
123
2500
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Table 1 Statistics of VG200, VG-KR, and VG150. #Img. denotes ‚Äúnumber of images‚Äù. Rel. denotes ‚Äúrelationship‚Äù
Dataset
Images
#Img. with
rel.
Object
categories
Predicate
categories
Object
instances
Rel. instances
Key rel. instances
#Img. with key
rel. instances
VG200
51,498
46,562
200
80
619,119
442,425
101,312
26,992
VG-KR
26,992
26,992
200
80
360,306
250,755
VG150
108,073
89,169
150
50
1,145,398
622,705
‚Äì
‚Äì
Fig. 9 Some examples from VG-KR dataset. Each image is shown with 3 captions and ground truth relationships. The purple ones are key
relationships which correspond to the red contents in captions
images. (3) Finally, we associate RK with the relationships
in VG200. The relationships in VG200 whose subject and
object WordNet synsets (Miller, 1992) can be aligned with
those of relationships in RK are marked as key ones. After
Ô¨Åltering out the images without key relationships in VG200,
here comes the VG-KR which contains 26,992 images. For
both VG200 and VG-KR, we split the training and test set
by 7:3 ratio, leading to 32,510/14,052 training/test images
in VG200, and 18,720/8,272 training/test images in VG-KR.
We additionally split 5,000 images from the training set for
validation.
We show several examples in Fig.9 and give the detailed
statistics of our datasets in Table 1. The VG200 and VG-
KR contain richer categories, predicates, as well as object
and relationship instances per image compared to VG150.
Moreover, VG-KR contains indicative annotation of key rela-
tionships. In Fig.10a, we show the distribution of images that
contain different numbers of key relationships. More than
90% of images contain less than 7 key relationships. Given
each predicate, we explore its probability to make up a key
relationship, as shown by the red bars of Fig.10c. The predi-
cates with large probability to be key ones, such as throwing,
brushing, and snifÔ¨Ång are usually verbs with rich semantics,
andtheyarethetailedpredicatesunderalong-tailedpredicate
distribution (Tang et al., 2020) as illustrated by the blue line
in Fig.10c. They are image-speciÔ¨Åc and when we see these
predicates, a scene can be roughly imagined. While predi-
cates like near, has, and of, which are the head predicates,
are less likely to make up the key relationships. To better
understand the difference of key and trivial relationships, we
give three examples in Fig.10b. Usually, the relationship man
throwing frisbee is the main content of an image, but the rela-
tionship head belonging to guy would be seldom mentioned,
and branch growing on tree is usually secondary.
Evaluation: Conventional evaluation for scene graph
generation follows triplet-match rule, i.e., only if three com-
ponents of a triplet match the ground truth will it be a correct
one. We adopt three universal protocols (Xu et al., 2017):
PREDCLS, SGCLS, and SGGEN. Both Recall (R@K) (Xu
et al., 2017) and mRecall (mR@K) (Chen et al., 2019; Tang
et al., 2019) metrics are used where K is set to 20, 50, and
100. Previous works mainly report R@K while recent stud-
ies prefer mR@K which better balances the performance
of each predicate. When evaluating key relationship predic-
tion (on VG-KR), we only adopt the PREDCLS protocol to
eliminate the interference of errors from object detector, and
add a tuple-match rule (only subject and object are required
to match the ground truth) to investigate the ability to Ô¨Ånd
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2501
Fig. 10 Statistical analysis on VG-KR. a The distribution of images
that contain different numbers of key relationships. b The distribution
of the key relationships consisting of a given predicate. The predicates
throwing, belonging to, and growing on are shown. c Each red bar stands
for the probability that a predicate constitutes a key relationship, which
is the ratio of the number of key relationships and that of all relation-
ships consisting of this predicate. The blue line represents the frequency
of the predicates
proper pairs. Meanwhile, as the number of key relationships
are much less, K is set to a relatively small value, i.e., 5,
10, and 20. When it comes to the VRD dataset which is for
visual relationship detection task, we follow its literature and
additionally adopt PHRDET protocol (Yu et al., 2017) which
allows to predict multiple predicates (i.e., k=1, 10, or 70) for
each pair.
Implementation Details: All models are implemented
with the open source platform PyTorch.2 In our model, the
dimension of hidden features in HCPL and HCPT is 512.
The mGAT-based HCPT uses K = 8 heads. The contex-
tual features { f o
i }N
i=1 and { f r
i }N
i=1 are of 1024 dimension.
The Ô¨Ånal relationship feature f r
i j is of 4096 dimension. The
GloVe embeddings W(1)
e
and W(2)
e
are of 200 dimension. To
eliminate wrong hierarchical association in HET, we set the
threshold T to 0.9. Following the literature, we train a Faster
R-CNN object detector (Ren et al., 2015) with ResNeXt101
(Xie et al., 2017) backbone for all models, which is pretrained
on MS-COCO, then Ô¨Ånetuned on VG150, VG200, and VRD
for evaluation on VG150, VG-KR, and VRD respectively.
The detector is frozen after Ô¨Ånishing training. To train the
scene graph generation model, we exploit SGD optimizer
with the initial learning rate set to 0.02 and the batch size
set to 32. The training process lasts for 12 epochs and the
learning rate decreases by a factor of 10 at the 7th and 10th
epoch respectively.
2 Source code and our collected dataset are available at https://github.
com/Kenneth-Wong/TGIR.
4.2 Ablation Study
In this section, we will Ô¨Årstly evaluate the rationality of HET,
then evaluate the effectiveness of HCP, and explore the best
conÔ¨Åguration of RRM and A-Sup scheme.
4.2.1 Rationality Evaluation of HET
As HET is constructed heuristically and there is no ground
truth, we begin with validating whether HET has a potential
to reveal humans‚Äô perceptive habits, i.e., the relationships
between the top objects on HET are indeed the key ones,
in an indirect way. We train two models, HCP+RRM and
HCP, and compare the depth distribution of top-5 predicted
relationships of these two models. The depth of a relationship
is represented by tuple (doi , do j ) consisting of the depth of
subject and object, and the depth of root is deÔ¨Åned as 1. As
shown in Fig.11a, we observe a signiÔ¨Åcant increment on the
ratio of the depth (2, 2) and (2, 3), and a drop on (3, 3) when
adding RRM. It implies that relationships which are closer
to the root of HET are favoured by RRM. We also analyze
the association between the conÔ¨Ådence Œ±‚àó
i j (Eq. 13) and the
depth of the relationship. We sample 10,000 relationships
from each depth predicted by HCP+RRM model Ô¨Åve times.
In Fig.11b, the conÔ¨Ådence decreases as the depth increases.
Therefore, different levels of HET indeed indicate different
perceptive importance of relationships. This characteristic
makes it convenient to reasonably adjust the scale of a scene
graph. When the scale of a scene graph is expected to be
restricted,itisfeasibleforourscenegraphbycuttingoffsome
deep branches of HET which are usually trivial relationships,
but it is difÔ¨Åcult to realize in an ordinary scene graph.
123
2502
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 11 Analyses about the depth. a Depth distribution of top-5 pre-
dicted relationships. The results of the inner and outer rings are from
HCP and HCP+RRM respectively. b The association between the con-
Ô¨Ådence and depth of the relationship
4.2.2 Effectiveness Evaluation of HCP
We conduct ablative experiments to validate the effectiveness
of the sub-modules of HCP, i.e., HCPL and HCPT . Besides,
we compare Bi-LSTM and mGAT mechanism. When the
HCP conÔ¨Ågures with a Bi-LSTM-based HCPT sub-module,
we denote it by HCP-B, otherwise we denote it as HCP-G
conÔ¨Ågured with an mGAT-based HCPT sub-module. We do
not apply RRM. Experiments are conducted on VG150 and
VRD and the results are shown in Table 2. We additionally
provide the result of Motif (Zellers et al., 2018) since when
ablating HCPL, the remaining HCPT would almost degener-
ate to Motif.
Comparing HCPL with HCP-B/HCP-G, it can be inferred
that HCPT contributes to both R@K and mR@K since it
directly propagates the contextual information between all
possibly related objects, and restricts this information prop-
agation process among the objects which do not share the
same parent so that those weak relationships are removed.
Comparing Motif with HCP-B/HCP-G, HCPL which
encourages the longitudinal contextual propagation espe-
cially beneÔ¨Åts mR@K. We further compare the predicate-
wise recall of Motif and HCP-G in Fig.12 where the
predicates are sorted in an descending order from left to right
according to the frequency. It is noted that the improvements
of mR@K mainly owe to the improved performance on tailed
predicates. As indicated in Fig.10c and Sect.4.2.1, the rela-
tionships consisting of these tailed predicates are usually the
key relationships and they exist between the top objects in
HET, which means that the HCPL beneÔ¨Åts the key relation-
ships prediction even without extra supervision.
4.2.3 Evaluation of RRM and A-Sup
We conduct ablative experiments to explore the best
conÔ¨Åguration of supervision approximation in the A-Sup
scheme. We adjust Œª in Eq. (14), ranging from 0 to 1 uni-
Fig. 12 Per-predicate recall on different predicates. Predicates are
sorted in descending order from left to right according to the frequency
formly, to balance the weights of spatial scale and visual
saliency. Meanwhile, we verify the necessity of global con-
text modeling considered in the design of RRM. When
ranking the relationships, we employ the Self-Attention (SA)
module to model global context of relationships so that the
importance of each relationship could be estimated with
consideration of other relationships. Oppositely, we replace
it with a simple two-layer MLP or an LSTM which is
weaker than SA on context modeling. This ablation study
is conducted on Motif. We report the improvement on R@K
and mR@K on VG-KR dataset after adding RRM, and the
improvement is averaged over different K (K is set to 1, 5,
10, and 20). The results are shown in Fig.13.
We make two observations: First, as Œª increases, the
weight of visual saliency also increases, but the performances
tend to drop. Especially when Œª is larger than 0.7, the negative
impact comes into prominence (the improvement is near or
below 0.0%). This phenomenon is obvious on R@K. Consid-
ering the performance of SA on mR@K, the positive impact
Ô¨Årst reaches a peak at about Œª = 0.1 then drops as Œª keeps
increasing. It suggests that visual saliency is not an ideal rela-
tionship importance indicator compared with spatial scale,
which is consistent with Ô¨Åndings from previous statistical
analyses (Sect.3.4). Second, SA basically outperforms MLP
and LSTM with a relatively small Œª (as Œª becomes larger,
the quality of the approximate supervision declines which
makes this superiority becomes not so obvious), indicating
the necessity of modeling global context when ranking rela-
tionships. Therefore, to balance R@K and mR@K metrics,
we set Œª = 0.1 in following experiments so that the SA-based
RRM improves the performances as signiÔ¨Åcant as possible
on both of these two metrics.
4.3 Comparison with State-of-the-Arts
In this section, we compare our proposed method with other
state-of-the-art methods on conventional scene graph gen-
eration/visual relationship detection tasks. Additionally, as
key relationships are especially valuable, we further com-
pare these methods on key relationship prediction task.
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2503
Table 2 Performances (%) of
different ablative models under
the PREDCLS protocol
Dataset
Model
R@20/50/100
mR@20/50/100
VG150
Motif Zellers et al. (2018)
60.0/66.2/67.5
11.4/14.0/14.9
HCPL
58.4/64.6/66.7
10.9/13.4/14.2
HCP-B
60.1/66.3/67.6
11.7/14.3/15.1
HCP-G
60.2/66.4/67.7
12.7/16.1/17.2
VRD
Motif Zellers et al. (2018)
54.0/56.6/56.7
8.2/9.1/9.2
HCPL
54.3/56.6/56.7
8.9/9.6/9.7
HCP-B
54.6/56.8/56.9
9.0/9.8/9.9
HCP-G
54.6/57.0/57.0
9.3/10.2/10.3
The best performances are shown in bold
Fig. 13 The performance improvement after adding RRM under various conÔ¨Ågurations of A-Sup scheme. Results are obtained under PREDCLS
protocol
4.3.1 Comparison on Conventional Tasks
For comparison on VG150, we compare our TGIR model
with following state-of-the-art methods: KERN Chen et al.
(2019), IMP Xu et al. (2017), MemNet Wang et al. (2019),
Motif Zellers et al. (2018), VCTree Tang et al. (2019)
and Seq2Seq Lu et al. (2021). These methods design a
speciÔ¨Åc model as introduced in Sect.2 and we call them
TYPE-I methods. We denote our model conÔ¨Ågured with Bi-
LSTM-based HCPT as TGIR-B and that conÔ¨Ågured with
mGAT-based HCPT as TGIR-G. All of them can be divided
into several key components, including the non-core mod-
ules (e.g., the object detector, relationship instance sampling
module, and the visual feature extractor), and the most impor-
tant core scene graph inference module (e.g., the HCP is
our core scene graph inference module) that most previous
works focus on for improving. However, some works (Tang
et al., 2020) have found that the improvement of the non-
core modules can also achieve better scene graph generation
performances, and this positive effect is even signiÔ¨Åcant than
that from the core scene graph inference module. Actually,
these non-core modules can be easily migrated among dif-
ferent methods. In order to compare different methods as
fair as possible and especially compare different core scene
graph inference modules, referring to Motif (Zellers et al.,
2018), we re-implement some of these methods using the
same implementation scheme for the non-core modules.3 All
models are only trained with the basic classiÔ¨Åcation loss Lcls
as described in Eq. (15). On the other hand, we also com-
pare with recent works which propose a general framework,
including TDE Tang et al. (2020), PCPL Yan et al. (2020),
CogTree Yu et al. (2021), DLFE Chiou et al. (2021), and
BASGG Guo et al. (2021). We call them TYPE-II methods.
In Table 3, we list the performances of TYPE-I methods
and TYPE-II methods, and report the results of some TYPE-
I methods re-implemented by ourselves. It can be seen that
our re-implemented versions obtain obvious improvement on
R@K, and even the early work IMP is competitive among
these methods. Another observation is that when adopting the
same non-core modules, the performance gap among these
methods has narrowed, which reÔ¨Çects the real gap among
their core scene graph inference modules. Besides, TYPE-II
methods focus on improving the recall of tailed predicates
and thus achieve better mR@K performances, but it usually
3 There exist some differences between the performances of our con-
ference version and this paper.
123
2504
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Table 3 Performances (%) on VG150
SGGEN
SGCLS
PREDCLS
R@20/50/100
mR@20/50/100
R@20/50/100
mR@20/50/100
R@20/50/100
mR@20/50/100
TYPE-I
MemNet Wang et al. (2019)
7.7/11.4/13.9
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
23.3/27.8/29.5
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
42.1/53.2/57.9
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
IMP Xu et al. (2017)
‚Äì/3.4/4.2
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
‚Äì/21.7/24.4
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
‚Äì/44.8/53.0
‚Äì/‚Äì/‚Äì
IMP‚ÄÝXu et al. (2017); Zellers et al. (2018); Chen et al. (2019)
14.6/20.7/24.5
‚Äì/3.8/4.8
31.7/34.6/35.4
‚Äì/5.8/6.0
52.7/59.3/61.3
‚Äì/9.8/10.5
KERN Chen et al. (2019)
‚Äì/27.1/29.8
‚Äì/6.4/7.3
‚Äì/36.7/37.4
‚Äì/9.4/10.0
‚Äì/65.8/67.6
‚Äì/17.7/19.2
FREQ Zellers et al. (2018); Tang et al. (2019)
20.1/26.2/30.1
4.5/6.1/7.1
29.3/32.3/32.9
5.1/7.2/8.5
53.6/60.6/62.2
8.3/13.0/16.0
Motif Zellers et al. (2018); Tang et al. (2019)
21.4/27.2/30.3
4.2/5.7/6.6
32.9/35.8/36.5
6.3/7.7/8.2
58.5/65.2/67.1
10.8/14.0/15.3
VCTree Tang et al. (2019)
22.0/27.9/31.3
5.2/6.9/8.0
35.2/38.1/38.8
8.2/10.1/10.8
60.1/66.4/68.1
14.0/17.9/19.4
VCTree‚ÄÝTang et al. (2019, 2020)
24.8/31.8/36.1
4.9/6.6/7.7
35.4/38.9/39.8
6.3/7.5/8.0
59.1/65.5/67.4
12.4/15.4/16.6
Seq2Seq Lu et al. (2021)
22.1/30.9/34.4
7.5/9.6/12.1
34.5/38.3/39.0
11.9/14.7/16.2
60.3/66.4/68.5
21.3/26.1/30.5
TYPE-II
TDE Tang et al. (2020)
12.4/16.9/20.3
5.8/8.2/9.8
21.7/27.7/29.9
9.8/13.1/14.9
33.6/46.2/51.4
18.5/25.5/29.1
PCPL Zellers et al. (2018); Yan et al. (2020); Chiou et al. (2021)
21.3/27.8/31.7
8.0/10.7/12.6
31.9/35.3/36.1
9.9/12.0/12.7
48.4/54.7/56.5
19.3/24.3/26.1
CogTree Zellers et al. (2018); Yu et al. (2021)
15.7/20.0/22.1
7.9/10.4/11.8
19.4/21.6/22.2
12.1/14.9/16.1
31.1/35.6/36.8
20.9/26.4/29.0
DLFE Zellers et al. (2018); Chiou et al. (2021)
18.9/25.4/29.4
8.6/11.7/13.8
29.0/32.3/33.1
12.8/15.2/15.9
46.4/52.5/54.2
22.1/26.9/28.8
BASGG Guo et al. (2021)
16.8/23.0/26.9
10.7/13.5/15.6
26.9/30.1/31.0
14.0/16.5/17.5
44.4/50.7/52.5
24.8/29.7/31.7
IMP‚Ä°
19.9/26.2/29.9
3.1/4.2/4.8
34.5/37.7/38.4
5.7/7.0/7.4
58.9/65.7/67.1
9.9/12.5/13.4
KERN‚Ä°
22.3/30.1/35.1
3.7/5.2/6.2
34.0/37.2/37.9
5.8/6.9/7.2
59.1/65.8/67.2
10.2/13.0/13.8
Motif‚Ä°
22.0/29.8/34.7
3.7/5.2/6.2
34.9/38.0/38.5
6.9/8.2/8.6
60.0/66.2/67.5
11.4/14.0/14.9
VCTree‚Ä°
23.2/30.6/35.1
3.4/4.7/5.6
35.3/38.3/38.9
7.4/9.0/9.4
60.5/66.6/67.9
12.2/15.0/15.9
TGIR-B
23.1/30.3/35.0
4.2/5.5/6.4
35.2/38.2/38.8
7.1/8.4/8.7
60.1/66.3/67.6
11.7/14.3/15.1
TGIR-G
21.3/29.1/34.8
4.4/6.4/7.9
35.3/38.3/38.9
7.6/9.2/9.7
60.2/66.4/67.7
12.7/16.1/17.2
The top-2 performances are shown with bold and italicized respectively
The ‚ÄÝmeans the results are from the re-implemented version of the third-party works, and the ‚Ä° stands for our re-implemented results
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2505
Table 4 Performances (%) on VRD
PREDCLS
SGCLS
RELDET/SGGEN
PHRDET
k=1
k=1
k=1
k=10
k=70
k=1
k=10
k=70
VRD Lu et al. (2016)
‚Äì/47.9/47.9
‚Äì
‚Äì/16.2/17.0
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/13.9/14.7
‚Äì
‚Äì
PPRFCN Zhang et al. (2017b)
‚Äì/47.4/47.4
‚Äì
‚Äì/19.6/23.2
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/14.4/15.7
‚Äì
‚Äì
VTranse Zhang et al. (2017a)
‚Äì/44.8/44.8
‚Äì
‚Äì/19.4/22.4
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/14.1/15.2
‚Äì
‚Äì
ViP Li et al. (2017)
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/17.3/20.0
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/22.8/27.9
‚Äì
‚Äì
VRL Liang et al. (2017)
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/18.2/20.8
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/21.4/22.6
‚Äì
‚Äì
Zoom-Net Yin et al. (2018)
‚Äì/50.7/50.7
‚Äì
‚Äì/18.9/21.4
‚Äì
‚Äì/21.4/27.3
‚Äì/24.8/28.1
‚Äì
‚Äì/29.1/37.3
CAI+SCA-M Yin et al. (2018)
‚Äì/56.0/56.0
‚Äì
‚Äì/19.5/22.4
‚Äì
‚Äì/22.3/28.5
‚Äì/25.2/28.9
‚Äì
‚Äì/29.6/38.4
KL-Dist Yu et al. (2017)
‚Äì/55.2/55.2
‚Äì
‚Äì/19.2/21.3
‚Äì/22.6/29.9
‚Äì/22.7/31.9
‚Äì/23.1/24.0
‚Äì/26.5/29.8
‚Äì/26.3/29.4
RELDN Zhang et al. (2019)
‚Äì
‚Äì
‚Äì/25.3/28.6
‚Äì
‚Äì/28.2/33.9
‚Äì/31.3/36.4
‚Äì
‚Äì/34.5/42.1
IMP‚Ä°
54.6/56.9/57.0
36.2/37.7/37.8
15.5/19.5/22.4
15.9/20.2/24.5
15.9/20.2/24.2
19.8/25.0/28.6
20.4/26.3/32.1
20.5/26.1/31.6
KERN‚Ä°
54.6/56.8/56.9
33.2/34.6/34.6
18.1/23.8/26.8
18.7/26.2/32.0
18.7/26.2/31.9
22.7/29.4/33.1
23.5/32.6/39.4
23.5/32.5/39.5
Motif‚Ä°
54.0/56.6/56.7
35.4/37.1/37.2
18.0/23.5/27.6
18.5/25.7/30.7
18.5/25.7/30.5
23.1/31.0/35.9
23.6/32.9/39.2
23.6/32.8/38.9
VCTree‚Ä°
53.9/56.2/56.3
35.5/37.2/37.2
18.7/23.9/27.5
18.6/26.0/31.4
18.6/25.7/30.9
24.4/31.0/35.6
24.4/33.2/39.9
24.4/32.8/39.3
TGIR-B
54.3/56.6/56.7
36.4/38.0/38.1
19.2/24.6/28.3
19.8/27.3/33.4
19.8/27.2/33.1
24.5/32.5/36.6
25.0/34.6/42.0
25.0/34.5/41.7
TGIR-G
54.2/56.6/56.7
36.0/37.5/37.5
19.7/25.5/29.1
20.7/28.7/34.2
20.7/28.7/34.2
24.5/31.8/36.3
25.6/35.4/42.1
25.6/35.4/42.1
The best performances are shown in bold
The ‚Ä° stands for our re-implemented results
k stands for the number of predicates that is allowed to predicted for each related pair
The three numbers in each cell are the results of R@20/50/100
123
2506
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
comes at the expense of performance drop on R@K. Our
TGIRmethoddominantlysurpasses most methods especially
on mR@K with mGAT, except that the Seq2Seq employs
reinforcement learning technique which is not the main point
of our work.
Among TYPE-I methods, Motif and VCTree are the most
relevant to ours. TGIR using multi-branch tree structure out-
performs Motif and yields comparable performance with
VCTree which uses a binary tree structure. We observe that
TGIR especially achieves better performances on mR@K,
which should be attributed to the HCPL sub-module as
described in ablation study. Besides, TGIR and VCTree are
the top-2 methods in terms of mR@K. It indicates that hierar-
chical structure is superior to plain one in terms of contextual
information modeling. Comparing TGIR with VCTree, the
tree structure of VCTree is constructed by gradually selecting
the related pair with the maximum learnable score, which has
less interpretability. Our HET is heuristically generated and
the structure stands for the subordination and juxtaposition
among the objects. Further, TGIR contains two contextual
propagation paths along HET so that those relatively strong
and key relationships included in these two paths are espe-
cially emphasised, which results in better mR@K.
The VRD dataset is originally for visual relationship
detection task, which is very similar to scene graph genera-
tion. Therefore, we make a comparison on VRD dataset as
shown in Table 4. Similarly, we report results of the previous
methods for VRD task in the upper part and the results of our
re-implemented mainstream scene graph generation meth-
ods in the bottom part. The models in the bottom part and
RelDN Zhang et al. (2019) use the object detector pre-trained
on MS-COCO and Ô¨Ånetuned on VRD. Zoom-Net Yin et al.
(2018) states that they use ImageNet pre-trained weights and
others remain unknown. It is shown that our method yields
better results compared to the state-of-the-arts.
4.3.2 Comparison on Key Relationship Prediction
When it comes to key relationship prediction, we mainly
compare our methods with Motif and VCTree on VG-KR
under the PREDCLS protocol to eliminate the interference
of errors from the object detector. We conduct three groups of
experiments under three settings: (1) ‚Äúw/o Sup‚Äù: Models are
trained on VG200, and directly evaluated on VG-KR. RRM
is not applied. (2) A-Sup: Models are trained on VG200 using
A-Sup scheme, and evaluated on VG-KR. RRM is applied.
(3) D-Sup: Models are trained using D-Sup scheme, and eval-
uated on VG-KR. RRM is applied. As key relationships are
much less than normal relationships according to Fig.10a,
we set the K in R@K and mR@K to small values, i.e., 5, 10,
and 20. The results are shown in Table 5.
It is observed that TGIR dominantly outperforms other
two competitors under the three settings. TGIR especially
obtains better performance on R@K under the tuple-match
rule,about2%higherthanothertwomethods,suggestingthat
the HET provides hints for estimating the importance of rela-
tionships and capturing humans‚Äô perceptive habits. TGIR-B
performs well on R@K under the triplet-match rule while
TGIR-G works better on mR@K under the triplet-match rule
and R@K under the tuple-match rule. Comparing the three
settings, models trained with D-Sup scheme provide an upper
bound. We Ô¨Ånd that A-Sup scheme effectively improves per-
formance compared to the setting of no supervision (‚Äúw/o
Sup‚Äù) and the improvement is especially signiÔ¨Åcant on R@K
under the tuple-match rule. It suggests that the approximate
supervision indeed helps mining the important related pairs.
Finally, RRM works well for all of these methods, which
show its excellent transferability.
Qualitative Analysis We demonstrate some qualitative
results in Fig.14. Despite some small deviations, HET is
mainly well constructed and close to human‚Äôs analyzing pro-
cess. We compare top Ô¨Åve relationships predicted by TGIR
with or without importance relationship supervision. It is
shown that the top Ô¨Åve relationships predicted by the model
with importance relationship supervision are mainly between
thetopobjectsinHET.ItveriÔ¨ÅestherationalityofHETagain.
These relationships focus on describing the major events of
the pictures rather than the details.
Failure Cases Analysis We demonstrate some failure cases
in Fig.15. In order to get rid of the interference from the
object detection, the scene graphs are predicted under the
PREDCLS protocol. These failure cases can be categorized
into two types: (1) The HET is not precisely constructed,
for example, in the Ô¨Årst case, the engine_1 is wrongly gov-
erned by man_1, whose correct parent node should be bike_1.
Despite this error, the HCPT sub-module still successfully
discovers the strong association between the engine_1 and
the bike_1, and correctly predicts the relationship ‚ü®engine_1,
on, bike_1‚ü©, although this relationship may not be impor-
tant. (2) Sometimes the objects in the image are too dense.
As shown in the second case, since the boat_3 is closed to
boat_1, the model wrongly conÔ¨Ågures the related pairs, mis-
taking ‚ü®man_1, on, boat_1‚ü©for ‚ü®man_1, on, boat_3‚ü©.
5 Experiments on Subsequent Applications
In this section, we attempt to conduct some experiments on
subsequent applications to show the value of key relation-
ship. As the scene graph has been widely adopted in image
captioning and cross-modal retrieval, experiments are mainly
conducted on these two applications. Besides, we will val-
idate that the key relationship keeps the major content and
helps restore the original image, through the image genera-
tion experiment.
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2507
Table 5 Performances (%) on VG-KR
w/o Sup
A-Sup
D-Sup
Tri. R@K
Tri. mR@K Tup. R@K
Tri. R@K
Tri. mR@K Tup. R@K
Tri. R@K
Tri. mR@K
Tup. R@K
Motif‚Ä°
31.1/36.1/45.7 3.4/5.4/7.6
46.7/60.8/81.7 32.5/37.9/45.9 3.6/5.5/7.7
49.0/62.7/82.2 34.2/41.3/47.6 6.3/8.4/10.1
63.1/78.3/88.9
VCTree‚Ä° 31.3/37.0/46.5 3.9/6.2/9.1
46.9/61.9/82.0 32.4/38.0/46.8 4.2/6.4/9.1
50.3/63.1/82.8 35.5/41.7/47.9 6.9/8.7/10.3
63.9/78.1/88.8
TGIR-B
32.0/38.2/47.5 3.9/6.2/8.9
47.8/62.6/82.9 33.5/39.0/47.6 4.2/6.4/9.0
51.4/64.6/83.4 36.3/43.5/49.2 7.1/9.0/11.0
64.9/78.7/90.1
TGIR-G 31.8/37.8/47.1 4.8/7.8/11.0 48.0/63.0/83.8 32.9/38.4/47.4 5.0/7.9/11.1 51.1/64.6/84.2 35.8/42.9/48.0 8.2/10.5/12.1 65.9/80.1/90.6
The best performances are shown in bold
The ‚Ä° stands for our re-implemented results
‚ÄúTri. R‚Äù and ‚ÄúTri. mR‚Äù stand for R@K and mR@K under triplet-match rule
‚ÄúTup. R‚Äù stands for R@K under the tuple-match rule
K is set to 5, 10, and 20
Fig. 14 Qualitative results. Four cases are shown. For each case, we
demonstrate the picture with the bounding boxes, its corresponding
HET, the top Ô¨Åve relationships attached to the HET predicted by TGIR
with or without importance relationship supervision (the bottom yellow
block and the upper purple block) respectively. In these relationships,
the purple arrows are key relationships matched with ground truth, and
the purple numeric tags next to the relationships are their rankings, e.g.,
the ‚Äú1‚Äù means that the relationship gets the highest score. Besides, we
show the image captions generated using top-2 relationships
123
2508
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Table 6 Performances (%) on image captioning using different numbers of top relationships as input
Top n
Model
B@1
B@2
B@3
B@4
ROUGE-L
CIDEr
SPICE
Avg. growth
all
GCN-LSTM
72.0
54.7
40.5
30.0
52.9
91.1
18.1
20
TGIR-B (Freq)
73.1
55.7
41.0
30.1
53.5
94.0
18.8
TGIR-B
74.9
58.4
43.9
32.8
54.9
101.7
19.8
0.06
TGIR-B (D-Sup)
75.0
58.2
43.7
32.7
55.1
102.2
19.9
5
TGIR-B (Freq)
70.7
53.2
38.6
28.0
51.7
84.4
17.2
TGIR-B
72.5
55.4
41.2
30.5
53.1
92.6
18.5
1.57
TGIR-B (D-Sup)
73.7
56.7
42.3
31.5
54.0
97.5
19.1
2
TGIR-B (Freq)
68.1
50.8
36.8
26.5
50.2
76.5
15.5
TGIR-B
70.8
53.4
39.2
28.7
51.8
86.4
17.6
2.10
TGIR-B (D-Sup)
72.3
55.2
41.0
30.4
53.1
92.2
18.4
The best performances are shown in bold
Table 7 Performances (%) of
different scene graph generation
methods on image captioning
Supervision
Model
B@1
B@2
B@3
B@4
ROUGE-L
CIDEr
SPICE
‚Äì
Motif
72.7
55.9
40.8
29.4
53.2
99.0
18.4
VCTree
72.9
57.7
41.6
30.3
54.2
100.1
18.5
TGIR-B
74.9
58.4
43.9
32.8
54.9
101.7
19.8
TGIR-G
75.3
59.3
44.2
33.7
55.8
102.9
20.3
D-Sup
Motif
73.1
56.3
41.2
29.6
53.4
100.8
18.6
VCTree
73.3
57.8
41.6
30.2
54.7
101.6
18.8
TGIR-B
75.0
58.2
43.7
32.7
55.1
102.2
19.9
TGIR-G
75.8
59.9
44.8
34.4
56.3
103.8
20.6
The best performances are shown in bold
Top 20 relationships are used as input
5.1 Evaluation on Image Captioning
We exploit the key relationships for image captioning. The
experiments are conducted on VG-KR since it contains cap-
tion annotation from MS-COCO. To generate image caption,
we select different numbers of predicted top relationships and
feed them into the LSTM decoder following GCN-LSTM
Yao et al. (2018). We re-implement GCN-LSTM and evalu-
ate it on VG-KR since it is one of the state-of-the-art methods
and meets our requirements well.
GCN-LSTM conducts graph convolution on the scene
graph and injects all relation-aware region-level features into
a two-layer LSTM decoder. It uses a simple two-layer MLP
classiÔ¨Åer to predict the pairwise relationship, which acts as
the front-end scene graph generator. For a fair comparison,
wereplacethescenegraphgeneratorwithourTGIR.Besides,
we feed the relationship features rather than region-level
features into the LSTM decoder, considering that the rela-
tionships which convey the events in the image are more
helpful for description generation.
We compare three variants of our method: (1) TGIR-B, (2)
TGIR-B (Freq): the predicted relationships are artiÔ¨Åcially
re-ranked according to their frequency in VG-KR, and (3)
TGIR-B (D-Sup): the model is trained using D-Sup scheme.
We feed top n relationships into the decoder to generate the
image caption. All mainstream metrics for image captioning
evaluation are adopted.
As shown in Table 6, TGIR-B (Freq) with top 20 relation-
ships input, outperforms GCN-LSTM because GCN-LSTM
conducts graph convolution using relationships as edges and
uses relation-aware region-level features as input, which is
not as effective as our design that the relationship features are
directly fed into the decoder. After applying D-Sup scheme,
there is consistent performance improvement on overall met-
rics. This improvement is more and more signiÔ¨Åcant as the
number of input top relationships reduces. It is reasonable
since the impact centers at top relationships. It suggests
that our method provides more essential content with as
few relationships as possible, which contributes to efÔ¨Åciency
improvement.
In Table 7, we compare the performances of different
scene graph generation methods on image captioning. It‚Äôs
shown that no matter using or not using key relationship
supervision, our methods surpass other scene graph genera-
tion methods.
In Fig.14, we show the image captions generated using
top-2 relationships as input. In the second sample, when the
top-2 relationships are ‚ü®woman, wearing, boot_1/boot_2‚ü©,
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2509
Table 8 Performances on cross-modal retrieval
Model
Top-1
Top-5
Top-5-CON
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
TGIR-B
8.2/6.9
26.9/24.2
39.8/35.2
16.0/20.0
13.2/6.8
33.6/21.8
46.8/34.0
12.0/23.0
25.2/21.7
54.7/48.4
70.2/64.4
4.0/6.0
TGIR-B (A-Sup)
10.1/7.8
27.7/27.0
40.9/37.7
15.0/18.0
15.2/7.3
37.8/23.2
51.2/35.7
10.0/21.0
25.5/23.2
57.2/50.9
71.8/68.0
4.0/5.0
TGIR-B (D-Sup)
16.6/15.7
46.6/43.6
62.3/60.6
6.0/7.0
19.8/10.0
48.2/29.9
62.0/44.1
6.0/14.0
37.2/28.9
67.6/61.8
81.7/77.2
2.0/3.0
The two values in each cell stand for results of the image-to-text and text-to-image retrieval respectively. Three settings are included: using top 1 relationship (Top-1), top 5 relationships (Top-5),
and one sentence by connecting the top 5 relationships (Top-5-CON). For the median rank (Med), the lower the better
The best performances are shown in bold
Table 9 Performances of different methods on cross-modal retrieval
Sup
Model
Top-1
Top-5
Top-5-CON
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
R@1 (%)
R@5 (%)
R@10 (%)
Med
‚Äì
Motif
7.1/6.4
25.8/24.0
39.1/34.1
17.0/19.0
13.1/5.6
32.3/21.0
45.3/33.0
13.0/23.0
24.1/20.4
53.8/47.5
69.3/62.7
4.0/7.0
VCTree
7.5/6.8
26.6/24.1
39.0/34.6
17.0/19.0
13.0/5.9
33.5/21.3
46.2/33.5
13.0/23.0
24.4/20.5
54.0/48.3
70.0/63.4
4.0/6.0
TGIR-B
8.2/6.9
26.9/24.2
39.8/35.2
16.0/20.0
13.2/6.8
33.6/21.8
46.8/34.0
12.0/23.0
25.2/21.7
54.7/48.4
70.2/64.4
4.0/6.0
TGIR-G
10.6/8.1
27.9/26.5
41.3/37.8
16.0/19.0
15.8/7.3
33.7/21.8
48.5/34.0
11.0/22.0
28.2/23.5
58.0/52.3
71.4/68.1
4.0/5.0
D-Sup
Motif
14.7/14.5
45.1/41.7
60.9/57.6
7.0/8.0
18.5/8.9
45.6/28.4
60.7/42.6
7.0/14.0
33.4/28.2
66.2/60.6
80.2/74.8
3.0/4.0
VCTree
15.6/15.2
46.1/42.7
61.0/59.4
7.0/7.0
19.0/9.9
46.9/29.3
61.4/43.4
6.0/14.0
33.8/28.8
66.3/60.8
80.8/75.2
3.0/3.0
TGIR-B
16.6/15.7
46.6/43.6
62.3/60.6
6.0/7.0
19.8./10.0
48.2/29.9
62.0/44.1
6.0/14.0
37.2/28.9
67.6/61.8
81.7/77.2
2.0/3.0
TGIR-G
18.6/16.9
48.1/44.3
63.6/61.8
6.0/6.0
20.6/10.4
49.3/30.2
63.7/45.0
6.0/13.0
38.6/29.1
68.0/62.5
82.6/78.2
2.0/3.0
The best performances are shown in bold
The metric settings are the same as Table 8
123
2510
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 15 Failure cases analysis. For each case, we demonstrate the pic-
ture with the bounding boxes, its corresponding HET, the top Ô¨Åve
relationships attached to the HET predicted by TGIR-B (D-Sup). The
meanings of the purple arrows and numeric tags are the same as those
in Fig.14
the generated caption cannot capture the essential content
that the woman is holding an umbrella. When the top-2 rela-
tionships contain ‚ü®woman, holding, umbrella‚ü©, the caption
successfully reveals the major content. In some cases, we
observe that the top-2 relationships are not totally consistent
with the image caption. It may because of the bias prob-
lem in the literature of image captioning. Besides, as the
input contains visual features, it is difÔ¨Åcult to fully restricted
information beyond the top-2 relationships. Despite this, it
still suggests that key relationships are more helpful for gen-
erating a description that highly Ô¨Åts the major events in an
image.
5.2 Evaluation on Cross-Modal Retrieval
As key relationships are claimed to be most relevant to the
major events in an image, it is expected that they beneÔ¨Åt the
cross-modal retrieval. SpeciÔ¨Åcally, we exploit the widely-
used image-text matching model SCAN (Lee et al., 2018) to
help compute the similarity between text and image. 1,000
images are randomly chosen from the test set of VG-KR
as the image gallery, and the predicted top 1 or 5 relation-
ships are collected as the text gallery, which are converted
into short sentences in ‚Äúsubject-predicate-object‚Äù style. We
design three settings for computing text-image similarity: (1)
using top 1 relationship (Top-1), (2) using top 5 relationships
(Top-5), and (3) using the single sentence by connecting the
top 5 relationships (Top-5-CON). The recall (R@K, K is 1,
5, 10) and the median rank (Kim et al., 2019) of the cor-
rectly retrieved images or text are used as the metrics. We
mainly use three models to generate the sorted relationships:
(1) TGIR-B, (2) TGIR-B (A-Sup), which is trained using
A-Sup scheme, and (3) TGIR-B (D-Sup), which is trained
using D-Sup scheme. The results are shown in Table 8. It is
shown that under all settings, the retrieval performance will
be improved using more important relationships. It suggests
that the key relationships are much more image-speciÔ¨Åc and
therefore they are more practical for supporting other tasks.
Similar to Sect.5.1, we compare different scene graph
methods on cross-modal retrieval as shown in Table 9. TGIR
methods performs better with or withour key relationship
supervision.
In Fig.16, we demonstrate some qualitative results. In
these samples, the major events in the query image (left col-
umn) can be decomposed into several key relationships (as
shown in the scene graph). The key relationships make it
possible to designate the target content to be retrieved, e.g.,
to retrieve man holding board or man standing on beach in
the third sample, while it is difÔ¨Åcult to achieve this goal with
those trivial relationships.
5.3 Qualitative Evaluation on Image Generation
Scene graph can be applied to image generation. Extracting
thekeyrelationshipsishelpfulforgeneratingthetargetimage
that meets the requirements.
We apply the sg2im method (Johnson et al., 2018) and use
the top 5 relationships from TGIR-G (D-Sup) and TGIR-
G respectively as input. The qualitative results are shown
in Fig.17. It is observed that the relationships predicted by
TGIR-G (D-Sup) are more important and thus the generated
images are roughly more consistent with the original ones,
although it‚Äôs difÔ¨Åcult to generate a high-resolution compli-
cated scene image. For example, in the Ô¨Årst row, TGIR-G
(D-Sup) successfully focuses on the main content, the build-
ing with a clock, while the car is secondary. In the third
row, TGIR-G (D-Sup) notices that the main content is ‚Äúele-
phant near elephant‚Äù, and thus two elephants can be roughly
observed from the generated image.
6 Conclusion
In this work we propose a new scene graph modeling for-
mulation and make an attempt to push the study of scene
graph generation towards practicability and rationalization.
We generate a hierarchical scene graph inspired by humans‚Äô
scene parsing procedure, and further prioritize the key rela-
tionships as far as possible. Experimental results show
that the reasonable constructed hierarchical scene structure
contributes to scene graph inference and boosts the key rela-
tionship prediction. It is found that some objective cues are
effective for estimating the relationship importance. Besides,
experiments on image captioning and cross-modal retrieval
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2511
Fig. 16 The text-to-image retrieval results using some key relationships in the scene graph
123
2512
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
Fig. 17 Image generation results using top 5 relationships from TGIR
and TGIR-G (D-Sup) model
suggest that key relationships are not just for appreciating,
but indeed have great potential to support other applications.
Generally, hierarchical scene graph generation has two
additionaladvantages.AsillustratedinSect.4.2.1,theassoci-
ation between the levels of HET and relationship importance
makes it possible to reasonably and conveniently adjust the
scale of a scene graph. When serving for subsequent applica-
tions, the scale of a scene graph usually should be restricted.
The current common practice is to keep the relationships
with the highest triplet scores without thinking their cor-
respondence with the main content of the image. A more
reasonable practice is to keep the key relationships. Further-
more, during the scene graph inference stage, conventional
practice requires exhaustive relationship prediction for every
pair of objects. Our method has potential to take a further step
towards efÔ¨Åcient inference, getting rid of the O(N 2) com-
plexity (Li et al., 2018) of the conventional practice, i.e., only
the relationships between a parent and its children nodes, and
any two sibling nodes are predicted. We intend to improve the
construction of HET in our future work so that more efÔ¨Åcient
inference is possible while the accuracy is still guaranteed.
Supplementary Information
The online version contains supplemen-
tary material available at https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-023-01817-
7.
Acknowledgements This work is partially supported by Natural Sci-
ence Foundation of China under contracts Nos. U21B2025, U19B2036,
61922080,andNationalKeyR&DProgramofChinaNo.2021ZD0111901.
References
Antol, S., Agrawal, A., Lu, J., Mitchell, M., Batra, D., Lawrence Zit-
nick, C., & Parikh, D. (2015). Vqa: Visual question answering. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV) (pp. 2425‚Äì2433).
Biederman, I. (2017). On the semantics of a glance at a scene. In: Per-
ceptual Organization (pp. 213‚Äì253). Routledge.
Bordalo, P., Gennaioli, N., & Shleifer, A. (2012). Salience theory of
choice under risk. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 127(3),
1243‚Äì1285.
Chen, S., Jin, Q., Wang, P., & Wu, Q. (2020). Say as you wish: Fine-
grained control of image caption generation with abstract scene
graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 9962‚Äì9971).
Chen, T., Yu, W., Chen, R., & Lin, L. (2019). Knowledge-embedded
routing network for scene graph generation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 6163‚Äì6171).
Chiou, M.J., Ding, H., Yan, H., Wang, C., Zimmermann, R.,& Feng,
J. (2021). Recovering the unbiased scene graphs from the biased
ones. In Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Mul-
timedia (ACM-MM) (pp. 1581‚Äì1590).
Chung, J., Gulcehre, C., Cho, K., & Bengio, Y. (2014). Empirical eval-
uation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling.
In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS)
Workshop on Deep Learning.
Dai, B., Zhang, Y., & Lin, D. (2017). Detecting visual relationships with
deep relational networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3298‚Äì
3308).
Deng, Z., Hu, X., Zhu, L., Xu, X., Qin, J., Han, G., & Heng, P.A. (2018).
R3net: Recurrent residual reÔ¨Ånement network for saliency detec-
tion. In Proceedings of the 27th International Joint Conference on
ArtiÔ¨Åcial Intelligence (AAAI) (pp. 684‚Äì690).
Dhamo, H., Farshad, A., Laina, I., Navab, N., Hager, G.D., Tombari,
F.,& Rupprecht, C. (2020). Semantic image manipulation using
scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 5213‚Äì5222).
Gu, J., Joty, S., Cai, J., Zhao, H., Yang, X.,& Wang, G. (2019). Unpaired
image captioning via scene graph alignments. In Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)
(pp. 10,323‚Äì10,332).
Gu, J., Zhao, H., Lin, Z., Li, S., Cai, J., & Ling, M. (2019). Scene
graph generation with external knowledge and image reconstruc-
tion. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 1969‚Äì1978).
Guo, Y., Gao, L., Wang, X., Hu, Y., Xu, X., Lu, X., Shen, H.T., &
Song, J. (2021). From general to speciÔ¨Åc: Informative scene graph
generation via balance adjustment. In Proceedings of the IEEE
InternationalConferenceonComputerVision(ICCV)(pp.16,383‚Äì
16,392).
Han, F., & Zhu, S. C. (2008). Bottom-up/top-down image parsing with
attribute grammar. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence (TPAMI), 31(1), 59‚Äì73.
He,S.,Tavakoli,H.R.,Borji,A.,&Pugeault,N.(2019).Humanattention
in image captioning: Dataset and analysis. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp.
8529‚Äì8538).
Herzig, R., Bar, A., Xu, H., Chechik, G., Darrell, T., & Globerson,
A. (2020). Learning canonical representations for scene graph
to image generation. In Proceedings of European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV), vol. 12371, (pp. 210‚Äì227). Springer.
Hochreiter, S., & Schmidhuber, J. (1997). Long short-term memory.
Neural Computation, 9(8), 1735‚Äì1780.
Hou, Q., Cheng, M.M., Hu, X., Borji, A., Tu, Z., & Torr, P. (2017).
Deeply supervised salient object detection with short connections.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3203‚Äì3212).
Itti, L., Koch, C., & Niebur, E. (1998). A model of saliency-based visual
attention for rapid scene analysis. IEEE Transactions on Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI), 20(11), 1254‚Äì1259.
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2513
Johnson, J., Gupta, A., & Fei-Fei, L. (2018). Image generation from
scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 1219‚Äì1228).
Johnson, J., Krishna, R., Stark, M., Li, L.J., Shamma, D., Bernstein, M.,
& Fei-Fei, L. (2015). Image retrieval using scene graphs. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3668‚Äì3678).
Kahneman, D., Slovic, S.P., Slovic, P.,& Tversky, A. (1982). Judgment
under uncertainty: Heuristics and biases. Cambridge University
Press.
Kim, D.J., Choi, J., Oh, T.H.,& Kweon, I.S. (2019). Dense relational
captioning: Triple-stream networks for relationship-based caption-
ing. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 6271‚Äì6280).
Klein, D.A., & Frintrop, S. (2011). Center-surround divergence of fea-
ture statistics for salient object detection. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp.
2214‚Äì2219).
Koner, R., Sinhamahapatra, P.,& Tresp, V. (2020). Relation transformer
network. arXiv:2004.06193.
Krishna, R., Zhu, Y., Groth, O., Johnson, J., Hata, K., Kravitz, J., Chen,
S., Kalantidis, Y., Li, L. J., Shamma, D. A., Bernstein, M. S.,
& Fei-Fei, L. (2017). Visual genome: Connecting language and
vision using crowdsourced dense image annotations. International
Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), 123(1), 32‚Äì73.
Lee, K.H., Chen, X., Hua, G., Hu, H., & He, X. (2018). Stacked cross
attention for image-text matching. In Proceedings of European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 11208, (pp. 201‚Äì
216). Springer.
Li, G., & Yu, Y. (2015). Visual saliency based on multiscale deep fea-
tures. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 5455‚Äì5463).
Li, R., Zhang, S., Wan, B.,& He, X. (2021). Bipartite graph network with
adaptive message passing for unbiased scene graph generation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 11,109‚Äì11,119).
Li, X., & Jiang, S. (2019). Know more say less: Image captioning based
on scene graphs. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia (TMM), 21(8),
2117‚Äì2130.
Li,Y.,Ouyang,W.,Wang,X.,&Tang,X.(2017).Vip-cnn:Visualphrase
guided convolutional neural network. In: Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
(pp. 7244‚Äì7253).
Li, Y., Ouyang, W., Zhou, B., Shi, J., Zhang, C., & Wang, X. (2018)
Factorizable net: an efÔ¨Åcient subgraph-based framework for scene
graph generation. In Proceedings of European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 11205, (pp. 346‚Äì363). Springer.
Li, Y., Ouyang, W., Zhou, B., Wang, K., & Wang, X. (2017). Scene
graph generation from objects, phrases and region captions. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV) (pp. 1261‚Äì1270).
Liang, X., Lee, L., Xing, E.P. (2017). Deep variation-structured rein-
forcement learning for visual relationship and attribute detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 4408‚Äì4417).
Liang, Y., Bai, Y., Zhang, W., Qian, X., Zhu, L., & Mei, T. (2019). Vrr-
vg: Refocusing visually-relevant relationships. In Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)
(pp. 10,403‚Äì10,412).
Lin, L., Wang, G., Zhang, R., Zhang, R., Liang, X., & Zuo, W. (2016).
Deep structured scene parsing by learning with image descriptions.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 2276‚Äì2284).
Lin, T.Y., Maire, M., Belongie, S., Hays, J., Perona, P., Ramanan,
D., Doll√°r, P., & Zitnick, C.L. (2014). Microsoft coco: Common
objects in context. In Proceedings of European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 8693, (pp. 740‚Äì755). Springer.
Lin, X., Ding, C., Zeng, J.,& Tao, D. (2020). Gps-net: Graph property
sensing network for scene graph generation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 3746‚Äì3755).
Liu, N., Han, J., & Yang, M.H. (2018). Picanet: Learning pixel-wise
contextual attention for saliency detection. In Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 3089‚Äì3098).
Lu, C., Krishna, R., Bernstein, M.,& Fei-Fei, L. (2016). Visual relation-
ship detection with language priors. In: Proceedings of European
ConferenceonComputerVision(ECCV)vol.9905,(pp.852‚Äì869).
Springer.
Lu,Y.,Rai,H.,Chang,J.,Knyazev,B.,Yu,G.,Shekhar,S.,Taylor,G.W.,
& Volkovs, M. (2021). Context-aware scene graph generation with
seq2seq transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 15,931‚Äì15,941).
Lv, J., Xiao, Q., & Zhong, J. (2020). Avr: Attention based salient visual
relationship detection. arXiv:2003.07012.
Miller, G. A. (1992). Wordnet: A lexical database for English. Commu-
nication of the ACM, 38(11), 39‚Äì41.
Navon, D. (1977). Forest before trees: The precedence of global features
in visual perception. Cognitive Psychology, 9(3), 353‚Äì383.
Nguyen, K., Tripathi, S., Du, B., Guha, T., & Nguyen, T.Q. (2021) In
defense of scene graphs for image captioning. In Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)
(pp. 1407‚Äì1416).
Pennington, J., Socher, R., & Manning, C. (2014). Glove: Global vec-
tors for word representation. In Proceedings of the Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)
(pp. 1532‚Äì1543).
Peyre, J., Laptev, I., Schmid, C., & Sivic, J. (2017). Weakly-supervised
learning of visual relations. In Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 5179‚Äì5188).
Pont-Tuset, J., Uijlings, J., Changpinyo, S., Soricut, R., & Ferrari,
V. (2020). Connecting vision and language with localized narra-
tives. In Proceedings of European Conference on Computer Vision
(ECCV) vol. 12350, (pp. 647‚Äì664). Springer.
Qi, M., Li, W., Yang, Z., Wang, Y.,& Luo, J. (2019). Attentive relational
networks for mapping images to scene graphs. In Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 3957‚Äì3966).
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R.,& Sun, J. (2015). Faster r-cnn: Towards
real-time object detection with region proposal networks. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) (pp.
91‚Äì99).
Schuster, S., Krishna, R., Chang, A., Fei-Fei, L.,& Manning, C.D.
(2015) Generating semantically precise scene graphs from tex-
tual descriptions for improved image retrieval. In Proceedings of
the Fourth Workshop on Vision and Language (pp. 70‚Äì80).
Sharma,A.,Tuzel,O.,&Jacobs,D.W.(2015).Deephierarchicalparsing
for semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 530‚Äì
538).
Shi, J., Zhang, H., & Li, J. (2019). Explainable and explicit visual rea-
soning over scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 8376‚Äì
8384).
Socher, R., Lin, C.C., Manning, C.,& Ng, A.Y. (2011). Parsing natural
scenes and natural language with recursive neural networks. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML) (pp. 129‚Äì136).
Suhail, M., Mittal, A., Siddiquie, B., Broaddus, C., Eledath, J., Medioni,
G., Sigal, L. (2021). Energy-based learning for scene graph gener-
123
2514
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
ation. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 13,936‚Äì13,945).
Tai, K.S., Socher, R., Manning, C.D. (2015). Improved semantic repre-
sentations from tree-structured long short-term memory networks.
In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (ACL) (pp. 1556‚Äì1566).
Tang, C., Xie, L., Zhang, X., Hu, X., Tian, Q. (2022). Visual recognition
by request. arXiv:2207.14227.
Tang, K., Niu, Y., Huang, J., Shi, J., Zhang, H. (2020). Unbiased scene
graph generation from biased training. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
(pp. 3716‚Äì3725).
Tang, K., Zhang, H., Wu, B., Luo, W., Liu, W. (2019). Learning to com-
pose dynamic tree structures for visual contexts. In Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 6619‚Äì6628).
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez,
A.N., Kaiser, ≈Å., & Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is all you need.
InAdvancesinNeural InformationProcessingSystems(NIPS) (pp.
5998‚Äì6008).
Velickovic, P., Cucurull, G., Casanova, A., Romero, A., Li√≤, P.,&
Bengio,Y.(2018).Graphattentionnetworks.InInternationalCon-
ference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Wang, L., Lu, H., Ruan, X., & Yang, M.H. (2015). Deep networks for
saliency detection via local estimation and global search. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3183‚Äì3192).
Wang, S., Wang, R., Yao, Z., Shan, S., & Chen, X. (2020). Cross-modal
scene graph matching for relationship-aware image-text retrieval.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of
Computer Vision (WACV) (pp. 1508‚Äì1517).
Wang, T., Borji, A., Zhang, L., Zhang, P., & Lu, H. (2017). A stage-
wise reÔ¨Ånement model for detecting salient objects in images. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV) (pp. 4019‚Äì4028).
Wang, W., Wang, R.,& Chen, X. (2021). Topic scene graph generation
by attention distillation from caption. In Proceedings of the IEEE
InternationalConferenceonComputerVision(ICCV)(pp.15,900‚Äì
15,910).
Wang, W., Wang, R., Shan, S., & Chen, X. (2019). Exploring context
and visual pattern of relationship for scene graph generation. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 8188‚Äì8197).
Wang, W., Wang, R., Shan, S., & Chen, X. (2020). Sketching image
gist: Human-mimetic hierarchical scene graph generation. In Pro-
ceedings of European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)
vol. 12358, (pp. 222‚Äì239). Springer.
Xie, S., Girshick, R., Doll√°r, P., Tu, Z.,& He, K. (2017). Aggregated
residual transformations for deep neural networks. In Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition (CVPR) (pp. 5987‚Äì5995).
Xie, Y., Lu, H., & Yang, M. H. (2012). Bayesian saliency via low and
mid level cues. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP),
22(5), 1689‚Äì1698.
Xu, D., Zhu, Y., Choy, C.B., & Fei-Fei, L. (2017). Scene graph gen-
eration by iterative message passing. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
(pp. 5410‚Äì5419).
Xu, N., Liu, A. A., Liu, J., Nie, W., & Su, Y. (2019). Scene graph cap-
tioner: Image captioning based on structural visual representation.
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 58,
477‚Äì485.
Yan, S., Shen, C., Jin, Z., Huang, J., Jiang, R., Chen, Y.,& Hua,
X.S. (2020). Pcpl: Predicate-correlation perception learning for
unbiased scene graph generation. In Proceedings of the ACM Inter-
national Conference on Multimedia (ACM-MM) (pp. 265‚Äì273).
Yang, J., Lu, J., Lee, S., Batra, D., Parikh, D. (2018). Graph r-cnn for
scene graph generation. In Proceedings of European Conference
on Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 11205, (pp. 690‚Äì706). Springer.
Yang, X., Tang, K., Zhang, H.,& Cai, J. (2019). Auto-encoding scene
graphs for image captioning. In Proceedings of the IEEE Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp.
10,685‚Äì10,694).
Yao, T., Pan, Y., Li, Y.,& Mei, T. (2018). Exploring visual relationship
for image captioning. In Proceedings of European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 11218, (pp. 711‚Äì727). Springer.
Yao, T., Pan, Y., Li, Y., & Mei, T. (2019). Hierarchy parsing for image
captioning. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 2621‚Äì2629).
Yin, G., Sheng, L., Liu, B., Yu, N., Wang, X., Shao, J.,& Loy, C.C.
(2018). Zoom-net: Mining deep feature interactions for visual rela-
tionship recognition. In Proceedings of European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 11207, (pp. 330‚Äì347). Springer.
Yu, J., Chai, Y., Wang, Y., Hu, Y., & Wu, Q. (2021). Cogtree: Cognition
tree loss for unbiased scene graph generation. In Proceedings of
International Joint Conferences on ArtiÔ¨Åcial Intelligence (IJCAI)
(pp. 1274‚Äì1280).
Yu, R., Li, A., Morariu, V.I., & Davis, L.S. (2017). Visual relationship
detection with internal and external linguistic knowledge distil-
lation. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision (ICCV) (pp. 1974‚Äì1982).
Zareian, A., Karaman, S., & Chang, S.F. (2020a). Bridging knowledge
graphs to generate scene graphs. In Proceedings of European Con-
ference on Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 12368, (pp. 606‚Äì623).
Springer.
Zareian, A., Karaman, S.,& Chang, S.F. (2020b). Weakly supervised
visual semantic parsing. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 3736‚Äì
3745).
Zareian, A., You, H., Wang, Z.,& Chang, S.F. (2020c). Learning visual
commonsense for robust scene graph generation. In Proceedings
of European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 12368,
(pp. 642‚Äì657). Springer.
Zellers, R., Yatskar, M., Thomson, S., & Choi, Y. (2018). Neural motifs:
Scene graph parsing with global context. In Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) (pp. 5831‚Äì5840).
Zhang, H., Kyaw, Z., Chang, S.F., & Chua, T.S. (2017a) Visual
translation embedding network for visual relation detection. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR) pp. 5532‚Äì5540).
Zhang, H., Kyaw, Z., Yu, J., & Chang, S.F. (2017b). Ppr-fcn: Weakly
supervised visual relation detection via parallel pairwise r-fcn. In
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV) (pp. 4233‚Äì4241).
Zhang, J., Kalantidis, Y., Rohrbach, M., Paluri, M., Elgammal, A.,&
Elhoseiny, M. (2019). Large-scale visual relationship under-
standing. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on ArtiÔ¨Åcial
Intelligence (AAAI) (pp. 9185‚Äì9194).
123
International Journal of Computer Vision (2023) 131:2489‚Äì2515
2515
Zhang, J., Shih, K.J., Elgammal, A., Tao, A., & Catanzaro, B. (2019).
Graphical contrastive losses for scene graph parsing. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR) (pp. 11,535‚Äì11,543).
Zhang, L., Zhang, J., Lin, Z., Lu, H., & He, Y. (2019).Capsal: Lever-
aging captioning to boost semantics for salient object detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR) pp. 6024‚Äì6033).
Zhong, Y., Wang, L., Chen, J., Yu, D., & Li, Y.(2020). Comprehensive
image captioning via scene graph decomposition. In Proceedings
of European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) vol. 12359,
(pp. 211‚Äì229). Springer.
Zhu, L., Chen, Y., Lin, Y., Lin, C., & Yuille, A. (2011). Recur-
sive segmentation and recognition templates for image parsing.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence
(TPAMI), 34(2), 359‚Äì371.
Publisher‚Äôs Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris-
dictional claims in published maps and institutional afÔ¨Åliations.
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds
exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such
publishing agreement and applicable law.
123
