Scene Graph Guided Generation: Enable Accurate Relations Generation in
Text-to-Image Models via Textural Rectiﬁcation
Guibao Shen1*†
Luozhou Wang1*†
Jiantao Lin1
Wenhang Ge1
Chaozhe Zhang1
Xin Tao3
Di Zhang3
Pengfei Wan3
Guangyong Chen5
Yijun Li4
Ying-cong Chen1, 2 ‡
1 The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)
2 The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
3 Kling Team, Kuaishou Technology 4 Adobe Research 5 Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Abstract
Recent advancements in text-to-image generation have been
propelled by the development of diffusion models and multi-
modality learning. However, since text is typically repre-
sented sequentially in these models, it often falls short in
providing accurate contextualization and structural control.
So the generated images do not consistently align with hu-
man expectations, especially in complex scenarios involving
multiple objects and relationships. In this paper, we intro-
duce the Scene Graph Adapter (SG-Adapter), leveraging
the structured representation of scene graphs to rectify inac-
curacies in the original text embeddings. The SG-Adapter’s
explicit, non-fully connected graph representation signif-
icantly improves upon the causal connections commonly
used in transformer-based text models. In causal connec-
tions, each token can attend to all previous tokens, which
may result in attribute leakage. On the other hand, we also
curated a highly clean, multi-relational scene graph-image
paired dataset MultiRels to address the challenges posed
by low-quality annotated datasets like Visual Genome [13].
Furthermore, we design three metrics derived from GPT-
4V [1] to effectively and thoroughly measure the corre-
spondence between images and scene graphs. Both qual-
itative and quantitative results validate the efﬁcacy of our
approach in controlling the correspondence in multiple re-
lationships.
1. Introduction
Image generation has made great progress thanks to the suc-
cess of a series of text-to-image diffusion models [5, 9, 21,
24, 25, 27, 30].
Due to the huge amount of text-image
paired training data [17, 29] and the numerous model pa-
rameters, these text-conditioned models show fantastic im-
*Equal contribution
†This work was conducted during the author’s internship at Kling.
‡Corresponding author
age quality and attract great attention from researchers as
well as industries.
However, the text encoder used by these models are sub-
optimal for generating coherent images. They often face
challenges in contextualizing text tokens, which requires
capturing both their intrinsic meanings and their contextual
understanding from surrounding tokens.
The most com-
monly used text encoder, the CLIP model [23], applies
causal attention mechanisms to allow tokens to gather in-
formation from preceding ones. However, this sequential
processing can lead to the “leakage issue”, where relations
or attributes incorrectly inﬂuence unrelated elements in the
image. For example, in “A man playing the guitar back to
back with a woman”, the relation “playing guitar” might be
mistakenly applied to the woman due to the linear text se-
quence (Fig. 1). Such cases, where the encoder fails to rec-
ognize distinct entity boundaries, underscore the need for
more advanced text embedding methods capable of accu-
rately depicting separate entities and their respective rela-
tions in complex scenes.
Scene graphs, with their structured representation, effec-
tively avoid the contextualization issues inherent in sequen-
tial text tokens. Scene graphs depict images as networks
of entities (nodes) and their relationships (edges), ensuring
clear, non-linear associations. Relations are directly linked
to speciﬁc nodes, preventing the ambiguity and misinterpre-
tation common in text-based processing. This distinct struc-
ture allows for precise and unambiguous representation of
complex scenes, enhancing the accuracy of image gener-
ation. This capability positions them as a natural control
signal for image generation.
However, pure scene graph-to-image generation [6, 12,
14, 35] lags behind text-to-image generation in terms of
image quality and is far from practical use.
This is be-
cause the scene graph-image pair data are considerably
smaller than text-image pair data.
For instance, Visual
Genome [13] includes 108,077 pairs with limited-quality
scene graph labels. In stark contrast, the typical text-image
dataset LAION-5B [31] contains a massive 5.85 billion
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15437
man
back-to-back with
woman
playing
guitar
Caption+ Scene Graph
man
back-to-back with
woman
and
playing
guitar
(Sequential Contextualization)
Stable Diffusion (SD)
+ Scene Graph Adapter
Caption
Figure 1. Overcoming Contextualization Limits in Image Generation with Scene Graph. The left section highlights the limitations of
text embeddings in sequential text processing, showcasing how relations like “playing guitar” may erroneously apply to the “woman”. The
right section illustrates the improvements of using a Scene Graph, which provides structured clarity, enabling precise relation.
CLIP-ﬁltered image-text pairs.
Acknowledging the challenges in text-to-image genera-
tion and scene graph datasets, our research aims to leverage
the limited scene graph annotations to enhance the control
and accuracy of text-to-image generation. Recent studies on
adapters [16, 20, 37], in pre-trained text-to-image models
offer promising directions. These adapters introduce new
control mechanisms that retain the model’s image genera-
tion quality.
In this study, we re-examine the text-to-image genera-
tion process, pinpointing issues of incorrect contextualiza-
tion arising during text encoder computation. This prob-
lem is traced back to the causal attention mask, which is
used in the pre-trained CLIP text model [23]. It fails to
account for the structural semantics inherent in captions.
However, directly replacing this causal attention mask dur-
ing inference is ineffective through our observations, as pre-
sented in Appendix 6.1.
Consequently, we propose the
Scene Graph Adapter (SG-Adapter), strategically plugged
in after the CLIP text encoder, to tackle this issue. This
adapter utilizes scene graph knowledge to reﬁne text em-
beddings.
Critically, to ensure precise contextualization,
we design our adapter based on a transformer architecture
and incorporate a novel triplet-token attention mask called
Scene Graph(SG) Mask, fostering accurate and contextu-
ally relevant text-to-image generation.
On the other hand, scene graph annotations often face
challenges such as limited rationality, language biases, or
reporting biases, resulting in visual relationships that are
often simplistic and less informative [31]. These less re-
liable annotations can complicate experimental validation.
To address this, we developed a multi-relational dataset,
MultiRels, with highly curated annotations that better cap-
ture complex semantic structures. Using this high-quality
dataset, we clearly demonstrate that our SG-Adapter excels
in generating relations with precise correspondences, show-
casing its strong ability to capture complex relational struc-
tures. Moreover, considering traditional evaluation metrics
like FID and CLIP-Score cannot perceive the abstract Rela-
tion Correspondence concept, we propose three evaluation
metrics derived from the advanced GPT-4V [1] to evaluate
the correspondences between images and scene graphs. In
summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We propose our SG-Adapter to correct the incorrect con-
textualization in text embeddings that results in “relation
leakage”. Our adapter effectively addresses this issue and
enhances the structural semantics generation capabilities
of current text-to-image models.
• We create a more comprehensive dataset with high-
quality annotations called MultiRels that could be
adopted to better demonstrate the generation models’
ability to handle complex structural semantics. Besides,
for effective and fair comparison in terms of relation ac-
curacy, we contribute three metrics derived from GPT-
4V [1].
• Both qualitative and quantitative results illustrate that our
SG-Adapter outperforms state-of-the-art text-to-image
and SG-to-image methods in terms of relation generation
and control.
2. Related Work
Text-to-Image Generation. The evolution of text-to-image
diffusion models [5, 9, 21, 24, 25, 27, 30] has marked a sig-
niﬁcant advancement in the generation of high-quality im-
ages. Among these, Stable Diffusion (SD) [25] is particu-
larly notable, utilizing a pre-trained autoencoder alongside
a diffusion model to effectively transform textual prompts
into precise and detailed visual representations.
Despite
their impressive capabilities, these models still face chal-
lenges, particularly in terms of the leakage issue, where
relations or attributes inadvertently inﬂuence unrelated el-
ements within an image [7, 15]. While [15] addresses this
through a novel Jensen-Shannon divergence-based binding
loss, it does not fully acknowledge the issue as stemming
from the improper contextualization of text embedding. In
a similar vein, [7] employs linguistic structures such as con-
stituency trees or scene graphs to guide the diffusion pro-
cess. However, this method does not entirely address the
root cause of these issues but constructs a set of text embed-
dings and only partially ﬁxes the wrong contextualization,
which is linked to the causal attention mechanism used in
15438
the CLIP text encoder.
Scene Graph-to-Image Generation. In the realm of scene
graph to image generation, some works often rely on scene
layouts as an intermediate representation [6, 12] in a two-
stage pipeline. They ﬁrst create scene layouts from scene
graphs and then generate images based on the layouts.
These layouts, serving as image-like representations of
scene graphs, can often be suboptimal due to manual craft-
ing and potential misalignment with actual scene graphs. In
this paper, we clarify that Layout-to-Image [3, 4, 16, 38]
and Scene Graph-to-Image are separate different topics,
as demonstrated in Fig. 2. Layout-to-Image aims to gener-
ate objects in user-speciﬁed areas while having limited abil-
ity to represent complicated Relations. This limitation has
led to the development of alternative approaches, such as
SGDiff [36], which optimizes scene graph embeddings for
better alignment with images, and other works [33] that in-
troduce “knowledge consensus” as a means to disentangle
complex semantics between knowledge graphs and images.
Despite the advances in this ﬁeld, the dearth of large-scale
and high-quality data continues to impede its widespread
practical application.
Single Relation Learning. Though Text-to-Image genera-
tion models have made great progress, they might fall short
when generating complicated single relationships.
RR-
Net [34] learns a relationship via a heterogeneous GCN
while Reversion [11] reverses the target relation from ex-
ample images by optimizing the relation prompt. Instead of
addressing the issue of single relations, our study focuses
on generating multiple relations with accurate correspon-
dences.
Adapter. The integration of adapters into existing models
has emerged as a noteworthy innovation, exempliﬁed by
methods such as ControlNet [37] and GLIGEN [16]. These
techniques have enabled models like SD to enhance user
control without requiring extensive retraining. For example,
ControlNet [37] operates as a plug-in module, extracting
and integrating residual features from each image condition
into SD’s U-Net for enhanced control. GLIGEN [16], on
the other hand, incorporates location control by integrating
a new self-attention module into the U-Net.
Our work critically examines the issue of false contex-
tualization in SD and develops a scene graph-only trained
adapter to enhance the semantic structure controllability of
SD, addressing a gap in the current landscape of text-to-
image generation.
3. Proposed Method
In this work, we aim to rectify the incorrect contextualiza-
tion in text embedding caused by the prevalent causal at-
tention masks in language models, i.e., CLIP text encoder
ET (·).
back to back
“panda <*> panda”
hug
Figure 2. Difference between Relation and Layout.The two im-
ages share a similar layout while the left one presents the relation
“back to back” and the other shows the relation “hug”, showing
the limited ability of Layout to represent complex Relation.
3.1. Discussions of Causal Attention
The causal attention mask in the context of transformer
models ensures that the prediction for a speciﬁc token can
only consider previously generated tokens. For a caption
c of N tokens, the causal attention mask M is an N →N
matrix where each entry M causal
ij
is deﬁned as:
Mcausal
ij
=
!
0,
if j ↑i,
↓↔,
if j > i.
(1)
This matrix is utilized in the scaled dot-product atten-
tion mechanism within the transformer model. The atten-
tion scores with the mask are computed as follows:
Attention(Q, K, V, M) = softmax
"QKT
↗dk
+ Mcausal
#
V,
(2)
where Q, K, and V denote the query, key, and value ma-
trices respectively, and dk represent the dimension of the
key vectors that are used for scaling. The softmax function
is applied subsequent to the addition of the causal attention
mask Mcausal. This ensures that for each position i in the
sequence, the attention is only on positions j ↑i, effec-
tively masking out the future tokens by assigning them a
value that approximates zero probability in the softmax due
to the ↓↔entries in the mask.
However, the causal attention mask may fail to maintain
the integrity of subject-relation-object bindings within cap-
tions, leading to incorrect contextual associations between
entities and relations. For instance, in Fig. 3, the caption
“a man holds a cake and a woman holds an apple” contains
two distinct subject-relation-object bindings. However, tra-
ditional causal attention will not mask out the former to-
ken “holds a cake” when computing the embedding of “a
woman” and may incorrectly leak the semantics of “holds
a cake” to “a woman”, disrupting the semantic structure of
15439
“a man holds a cake, and a 
woman holds an apple”
(2) Testing
SG-Adapter
CLIP
Stable 
Diffusion
(1) Training
man holds cake, 
woman holds 
apple
Q
K
V
Text
embedding
Scene graph
embedding
Token-triplet
Matrix
Refined Text
embedding
CLIP
SD
CLIP
SD
SG-Adapter
man
cake
woman
apple
hold
hold
Parser
f
w
e
SG
Figure 3. Framework for SG-Adapter in Stable Diffusion. The Parser (could be either an NLP tool [7] or GPT-4 [1]) extracts linguistic
structures from text inputs. Scene graph embeddings are computed as per Eq. (4). The token-triplet matrix, generated by the function
ω, guides the reﬁnement of each token and its associated triplet. During testing, when integrated with our SG-Adapter, Stable Diffusion
more accurately captures the intended semantic structure in the generated images.
the caption.
To enable precise interactions among tokens, a thorough
understanding of the semantic structure encapsulated in the
caption is crucial. This structure is aptly represented by a
scene graph, constituted of a sequence of triplets format-
ted as ↘subject, relation, object≃. The extraction of these K
triplets from the caption can be achieved either through an
NLP parser [7] or GPT-4 [1]. Each triplet Tk is indexed by
k, and a token-to-triplet mapping function ω(·) is deﬁned,
which maps each token i to its respective triplet index. The
prompt used in GPT-4 is provided in Appendix.6.6.
Our analysis stipulates that interaction between any two
tokens i and j is permissible solely when they are con-
stituents of an identical triplet, as determined by the con-
dition ω(i) = ω(j). In light of this, we propose reﬁning the
causal attention mask such that it facilitates the alignment of
each token with its associated triplet. This reﬁnement pro-
cess is intended to bolster the model’s ability to discern and
maintain contextual relationships. Triplet-Triplet attention
mask Mω, adjusted for triplet alignment, is formally given
by:
Mω
ij =
!
0,
if ω(i) = ω(j),
↓↔,
otherwise.
(3)
With the reﬁned attention mask, the most straightforward
approach would be to replace the CLIP attention mask dur-
ing inference. However, this can cause out-of-distribution
issues, as shown in the Appendix.6.1. Additionally, train-
ing a CLIP model from scratch using a scene graph atten-
tion mask requires substantial resources.
3.2. Scene Graph Guided Generation
Scene Graph Representation.
To address these chal-
lenges, we devised an alternative approach that augments
the text embeddings produced by the CLIP model with the
scene graph information. The text embedding output by the
CLIP model is denoted as w = ET (c), where w ⇐RN→D
and D signiﬁes the dimensionality of the embedding vec-
tors by CLIP Text Encoder ET . Here, wi ⇐RD represents
the embedding of the ith token.
To encapsulate the scene graph information, we con-
struct a uniﬁed embedding for each semantic triplet. For
a given triplet Tk = ↘sk, rk, ok≃, where sk, rk, and ok de-
note the subject, relation, and object of the triplet respec-
tively, we apply ET to each component to obtain their em-
beddings. These embeddings are then concatenated to form
a composite triplet embedding as follows:
ek = l(concat(ET(sk), ET(rk), ET(ok))),
(4)
where l(·) is a projection function that maps its input to the
dimensionality D. The ﬁnal scene graph embedding e ⇐
RK→D is the concatenation of all the triplet embeddings.
This embedding is then utilized to reﬁne the embeddings of
corresponding tokens.
Scene Graph Adapter.
To implement the reﬁnement,
an adapter f(·) is designed.
Conceptualized as a trans-
former module, our adapter predominantly integrates a
15440
cross-attention layer. This layer facilitates relation-text at-
tention by leveraging the scene graph embedding e to cal-
culate the keys K and values V, and the text embedding w
to calculate the queries Q. Such interaction is pivotal in up-
dating the text embeddings with relation-speciﬁc nuances.
The model f is mathematically represented as:
w↑= f(w, e, Msg)
= Attention(Q, K, V, Msg),
(5)
where Q = lQ(w), K = lK(e), and V = lV (e) are derived
using respective projection layers in the attention frame-
work. The term w↑represents the improved text embed-
dings resulting from the application of the cross-attention
mechanism.
To ensure that each token embedding wi attends to
the appropriate triplet embedding eω(i), we introduce the
Token-Triplet attention mask Msg ⇐RN→K. This mask is
designed to allow each token embedding to attend exclu-
sively to its corresponding triplet embedding. The mask is
formalized as follows:
Msg
ik =
!
0,
if ω(i) = k
↓↔,
otherwise
(6)
and implementing this mask within the cross-attention layer
of our model permits wi to be selectively reﬁned based
on the contextual relevance of Tω(i). Such a targeted ap-
proach ensures precise contextualization within the gener-
ated scene graph.
To train our model, we leverage the pre-trained diffusion
model framework. Given an image x, its corresponding text
embedding w, and the extracted scene graph embedding e,
our model undergoes a training phase analogous to that of
the diffusion model. The objective is to minimize the dis-
crepancy between the predicted and actual noise variables.
The training loss function is deﬁned as:
Lt = Ex,t,ε
$
⇒εt ↓εϑ(xt, t, f(w, e, Msg))⇒2
2
%
,
(7)
where εt represents the noise variable at time step t, and
εϑ denotes the noise prediction from the pre-trained diffu-
sion model parameterized by ϑ. The function f(w, e, Msg)
encapsulates the adapter’s output, which reﬁnes the text
embedding with relation-speciﬁc context derived from the
scene graph embedding. Our training algorithm iteratively
adjusts the parameters of f(·) to reduce Lt, thereby improv-
ing the ﬁdelity of generated images to the input descriptions
and scene graph structure.
4. Experiments
4.1. Dataset Conﬁguration
As we mentioned above, a scene graph dataset with clean
and precise relational annotations is essential as well as ef-
fective for learning relation representation. To train a model
that can encode both single and multiple relations accu-
rately, for the ﬁrst time, we present a multiple relations
scene graph-image paired dataset with highly precise labels
called MultiRels. The dataset with size 309 is composed of
two parts as follows:
• ReVersion [11]: This part consists of 99 images with only
a single clear relation. There are 10 representative rela-
tions in Reversion and most of them are “difﬁcult” rela-
tions that current text-to-image models can not generate
well, e.g., shake hands with, sit back to back, is painted
on. Reversion is mainly used to learn new speciﬁc single
relations.
• Multiple Relations: For multi-relations learning, in this
part, we manually collect images with 1-4 (mostly more
than 1) salient relations and label them with accurate
scene graphs. Most of the relations are “simple” rela-
tions (e.g., holding, drinking, stands on, sits on) that cur-
rent text-to-image models generate well individually but
fail when existing multiple objects and multiple relations.
There are also small parts of relations that are “difﬁcult”
like is above, is under. Multiple Relations is towards to
train a model that could generate multiple relations with
correct correspondences.
Besides the scene graph, we additionally provide a token-
triplet matrix for each image.
Test Scenarios. To fairly validate the effectiveness and gen-
eralization performance of our method, we design 20 differ-
ent testing scenarios that regroup 2-3 randomly selected re-
lations in MultiRels. For more details about the MultiRels,
please refer to our Appendix.6.4.
4.2. Baseline Methods
In our experiments, we evaluate the performance of SG-
Adapter against several alternative methods, each with a
distinct approach to text-to-image generation:
• Fine-tuning (FT): No adapters are used.
We directly
ﬁne-tune components of Stable Diffusion, CLIP text en-
coder according to our analysis in Sec.1.
• LoRA Adapter: Utilizes the LoRA (Low-Rank Adapta-
tion) adapter [10]. The LoRA adapter does not integrate
direct scene graph information in the adaptation process.
• Gated Self-Attention Adapter: Employs the adapter
proposed by GLIGEN [16] which introduces scene graph
tokens into the model. For generating scene graph tokens,
we use a specialized scene graph encoder that has been
pre-trained for this speciﬁc task [36].
Note these baseline methods also assess the impact of
Scene Graph Embedding from two critical angles:
• Inclusion of SG Embed: We explore the necessity of
SG Embed by contrasting the performance of our SG-
Adapter with the LoRA Adapter, which operates without
SG Embed.
15441
Ours
GLIGEN 
Adapter
Stable 
Diffusion
Finetune 
CLIP
Lora 
Adapter
“an astronaut stands on floor 
and a man sits on a chair ”
“a carrot is under a chair 
and a cup is above the chair”
“a man ride on a bike and 
a woman ride on a horse”
Figure 4. Qualitative Comparisons with Adaptation Methods. In addition to precisely generating each individual relation in the text
prompt, our SG-Adapter successfully creates all multiple relations together in correct correspondence.
• Placement of SG Embed: We assess the effect of embed-
ding placement by comparing our model to the GLIGEN
Adapter, which integrates SG Embed within a U-Net ar-
chitecture.
4.3. Qualitative Evaluation
We begin with a qualitative assessment, showcasing syn-
thetic images from each method. SG-Adapter’s ability to
accurately depict complex relational structures and enti-
ties is highlighted, with Fig. 4 illustrating its superiority
in maintaining correct relation correspondence in generated
images. More qualitative results are provided in Appendix.
4.4. Quantitative Evaluation
Automatic Metrics. Since relation correspondence in im-
ages is complicated and abstract, existing metrics like FID
can not perceive such conception. To fairly and effectively
evaluate the ability to generate accurate relations of each
method, we contribute three metrics derived from the ad-
vanced GPT-4V[1]: Scene Graph(SG)-IoU, Relation-IoU,
and Entity-IoU. These metrics are computed as follows:
Given a generated image I, we obtain the scene graph
represented as a list of triplets: ˆT = { ˆT1, ˆT2, . . . , ˆTn =
↘ˆsn, ˆrn, ˆon≃} and the entity list ˆϖ using GPT-4V, denoted as
ˆT , ˆϖ = GPT(I).The extraction prompt is provided in the
Appendix.6.6. From ˆT , we can also derive the relation list
ˆr. Then, given the input scene graph T and entity list ϖ
15442
Table 1. Quantitative Evaluation of each method in terms of Automatic Relational Metrics, Human Evaluations, and Image Quality.
Method
Automatic Metrics
Human Evaluations
FID ↓
SG-
Entity-
Relation-
Relation-
Entity-
IoU ↔
IoU ↔
IoU ↔
Accuracy ↔
Accuracy ↔
Stable Diffusion [25]
0.157
0.673
0.526
5.38%
5.48%
25.0
Finetune CLIP
0.198
0.499
0.635
5.38%
6.78%
58.2
GLIGEN Adapter [16]
0.141
0.689
0.546
5.72%
5.58%
27.4
LoRA Adapter [10]
0.145
0.653
0.540
5.96%
5.05%
27.5
SG-Adapter
0.623
0.812
0.753
77.6%
77.1%
26.2
derived from T , the three metrics are computed as follows:





SG-IoU = IoU(T , ˆT ),
Entity-IoU = IoU(ϖ, ˆϖ),
Relation-IoU = IoU(r, ˆr),
(8)
SG-IoU indicates whether each relationship is well gener-
ated according to input correspondence and the other two
metrics show whether each object and relation are gener-
ated.
Human Evalution. We conduct a user study engaging 104
participants in evaluating 20 test scenarios, each comprising
textual descriptions and corresponding sets of images from
the evaluated methods, yielding 2,080 interactions. We col-
lect the percentage of user preference for each method in
terms of the following criteria:
Entity Accuracy: Evaluating the precision in representing
all textual entities within the images.
Relation Accuracy: Assessing the accuracy of depicted rela-
tionships between entities, ensuring alignment with the tex-
tual descriptions.
Image Quality. We compute the FID[8] that quantiﬁes the
discrepancy between the distribution of generated images
and 5000 validation images in the MS-COCO-Stuff [2].
Quantitative Analysis.
• Relation Correctness. As demonstrated in Tab. 1, SG-
Adapter consistently outperforms the baseline methods
on both Automatic Metrics and Human Evaluations, sig-
niﬁcantly on SG-IoU and Relation Accuracy, showing
a strong ability to generate relations with precise corre-
spondences. Besides, high Entity-IoU and Relation-IoU
while low SG-IoU indicate that though all the baseline
methods successfully generated the required entity and
relation, they can not distribute them to each other with
correct correspondence.
• Image Quality Maintenance. Finetuning a pre-trained T2I
model on a relatively small dataset will degrade the FID
inevitably[26, 32]. As shown in Tab.1, our method main-
tains the image quality best among all the alternatives.
Table 2. Ablation study on SG Mask.
Method
SG-IoU ⇑
Entity-IoU ⇑
Relation-IoU ⇑
FID ⇓
w/o SG Mask
0.316
0.742
0.668
26.7
SG-Adapter
0.623
0.812
0.753
26.1
4.5. Ablation Study
To elucidate the contributions of SG-Adapter’s distinct
components, we performed a comparative analysis by sys-
tematically ablating speciﬁc features. Through our exper-
iments, we have demonstrated that the inclusion of scene
graph embeddings is essential and that integrating them into
the text encoder is more effective. We conduct an ablation
study on the internal elements of our method:
Token-to-Triplet Causal Mask (SG Mask): We assessed
the signiﬁcance of the causal mask designed to map tokens
to triplets, evaluating its role in reﬁning the image genera-
tion process.
As shown in Tab. 2, our method performs better than the
one without SG mask on all evaluation metrics, indicating
the effectiveness of the proposed SG mask.
4.6. SG-to-Image Generation Evaluation
We further benchmark our method against state-of-
the-art
SG-to-Image
generation
approaches
includ-
ing SG2IM [12], PasteGAN [14], SceneGenie [33] ,
SGDiff [36], R3CD [18], and ISGC [19] both quantita-
tively and qualitatively.
(Note that SceneGenie, R3CD
and ISGC do not release the code, we just report the
quantitative result from their paper.)
We train our SG-
Adapter on the commonly used Scene Graph dataset [22]
to demonstrate that our method is extendable to large-scale
datasets. For Flickr30k [22], we employed NLP processing
techniques [7] to extract scene graph information.
For qualitative comparison, we present generated im-
ages of each method in Fig. 5. Beneﬁting from our learned
adapter strategy, we harness the high-resolution and high-
ﬁdelity generative capabilities of pre-trained text-to-image
models, thereby achieving superior image quality in our re-
sults. Moreover, our method adeptly renders complex rela-
15443
SG2IM
PasteGAN
SGDiff
Ours
SG2IM
PasteGAN
SGDiff
Ours
below
bus
right of
above
above
tree
road
sky-other
boat
mountain
sky-other
sea
below
below
rock
above
below
below
sky
tree
ground
road
shadow
tree
on side of
Scene graph
pole
near
building
street
Scene graph
Text
a bus is below the tree and the tree 
is above the road; the sky is right of 
the tree and above the road
Text
pole near street, building
Scene graph
a boat is below the mountain, 
a rock is below the sky, and 
the sky is above the sea
Text
Scene Graph
Text
tree on side of road, sky, 
ground, tree, shadow
Figure 5. Comparison with Scene Graph to Image Generation. SG-Adapter outperforms other SG generation methods in terms of
image quality and relation accuracy.
Table 3. Comparison with SG2I Generation Methods.
Method
SG2IM
PasteGAN
SGDiff
SceneGenie
R3CD
ISGC
SG-Adapter
FID ⇓
99.1
79.1
36.2
62.4
32.9
38.1
25.1
Inception Score ⇑
8.20
12.3
17.8
21.5
19.5
30.2
57.8
SG-IoU ⇑
0.085
0.091
0.122
-
-
-
0.413
Entity-IoU ⇑
0.297
0.382
0.436
-
-
-
0.729
Relation-IoU ⇑
0.253
0.297
0.394
-
-
-
0.681
tional structures in images, signifying that our adapter ef-
fectively leverages scene graph information to accurately
reﬂect intricate relationships within the visual output.
For quantitative comparison, due to the large size of the
validation sets in the above datasets, performing GPT-4V-
based evaluations for all methods would require a large
number of API calls, exceeding our available resources.
Therefore, we randomly sampled 200 samples to evaluate
SG-IoU, Entity-IoU, and Relation-IoU. We provided the
FID and Inception Score [28] for each method in Tab. 3.
The results were also tested on the COCO-Stuff validation
dataset with a resolution of 256→256. Tab. 3 shows that
SG-Adapters outperform other SG-to-Image approaches on
both evaluation metrics by a signiﬁcant margin, demonstrat-
ing superiority in both image ﬁdelity and diversity.
5. Conclusion and Discussion
This paper introduces the Scene Graph Adapter (SG-
Adapter), a novel enhancement for text-to-image genera-
tion models. By integrating scene graph knowledge, the
SG-Adapter signiﬁcantly improves the contextual under-
standing of these models, ensuring images closely match
their textual descriptions. The adapter employs an efﬁcient
triplet-token attention mechanism within a transformer ar-
chitecture, allowing for more precise mapping of text to vi-
sual elements. To validate its effectiveness, the study uti-
lized a specially curated dataset featuring multiple relations
and high-quality annotations, showing the crucial role of
clean, relation-rich data in multi-relational learning. Fur-
thermore, we propose three effective metrics derived from
GPT-4V [1] to evaluate the generated relation precisely.
Lastly, our method could learn a new and complex single re-
lation as a by-product, similar to ReVersion [11], as shown
in Appendix.6.3 Fig.7.
As for limitation, to address data privacy concerns and
follow the double-blind policy, we apply anonymization
techniques to human faces in our MultiRels dataset, which
may introduce some artifacts affecting image quality in-
evitably.
We are actively exploring more sophisticated
anonymization methods that preserve data integrity while
ensuring privacy.
15444
6. Acknowledgement
We acknowledge support from National Key R&D Program
of China (2022YFE0200700). This project was also sup-
ported by Kuaishou Technology, in part by the National
Key R&D Program of China (Grant No.2023YFF0725001),
in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grant No.92370204), in part by the Guangdong
Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (Grant
No.2023B1515120057), and in part by the Education Bu-
reau of Guangzhou.
References
[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ah-
mad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida,
Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al.
Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774,
2023. 1, 2, 4, 6, 8
[2] Holger Caesar, Jasper Uijlings, and Vittorio Ferrari. Coco-
stuff: Thing and stuff classes in context. In Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition, pages 1209–1218, 2018. 7
[3] Minghao Chen, Iro Laina, and Andrea Vedaldi. Training-free
layout control with cross-attention guidance. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.03373, 2023. 3
[4] Guillaume Couairon,
Marl`ene Careil,
Matthieu Cord,
St´ephane Lathuili`ere, and Jakob Verbeek. Zero-shot spatial
layout conditioning for text-to-image diffusion models. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision, pages 2174–2183, 2023. 3
[5] Prafulla Dhariwal and Alexander Nichol. Diffusion models
beat gans on image synthesis. Advances in neural informa-
tion processing systems, 34:8780–8794, 2021. 1, 2
[6] Azade Farshad, Yousef Yeganeh, Yu Chi, Chengzhi Shen,
B¨ojrn Ommer, and Nassir Navab. Scenegenie: Scene graph
guided diffusion models for image synthesis. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vi-
sion, pages 88–98, 2023. 1, 3
[7] Weixi Feng, Xuehai He, Tsu-Jui Fu, Varun Jampani, Arjun
Akula, Pradyumna Narayana, Sugato Basu, Xin Eric Wang,
and William Yang Wang. Training-free structured diffusion
guidance for compositional text-to-image synthesis. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.05032, 2022. 2, 4, 7
[8] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner,
Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a
two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilib-
rium, 2018. 7
[9] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising dif-
fusion probabilistic models. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020. 1, 2
[10] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-
Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen.
Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2106.09685, 2021. 5, 7
[11] Ziqi Huang, Tianxing Wu, Yuming Jiang, Kelvin CK Chan,
and Ziwei Liu. Reversion: Diffusion-based relation inversion
from images. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.13495, 2023. 3, 5,
8
[12] Justin Johnson, Agrim Gupta, and Li Fei-Fei. Image gener-
ation from scene graphs. In Proceedings of the IEEE con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
1219–1228, 2018. 1, 3, 7
[13] Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson,
Kenji Hata, Joshua Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalan-
tidis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, et al.
Visual genome:
Connecting language and vision using crowdsourced dense
image annotations. International journal of computer vision,
123:32–73, 2017. 1
[14] Yikang Li, Tao Ma, Yeqi Bai, Nan Duan, Sining Wei, and
Xiaogang Wang. Pastegan: A semi-parametric method to
generate image from scene graph. Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 32, 2019. 1, 7
[15] Yumeng Li, Margret Keuper, Dan Zhang, and Anna Khoreva.
Divide & bind your attention for improved generative seman-
tic nursing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10864, 2023. 2
[16] Yuheng Li, Haotian Liu, Qingyang Wu, Fangzhou Mu, Jian-
wei Yang, Jianfeng Gao, Chunyuan Li, and Yong Jae Lee.
Gligen: Open-set grounded text-to-image generation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 22511–22521, 2023. 2, 3, 5,
7
[17] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James Hays,
Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Doll´ar, and C Lawrence
Zitnick. Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. In
Computer Vision–ECCV 2014: 13th European Conference,
Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings,
Part V 13, pages 740–755. Springer, 2014. 1
[18] Jinxiu Liu and Qi Liu. R3cd: Scene graph to image gener-
ation with relation-aware compositional contrastive control
diffusion. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁ-
cial Intelligence, pages 3657–3665, 2024. 7
[19] Rameshwar
Mishra
and
AV
Subramanyam.
Scene
graph to image synthesis: Integrating clip guidance with
graph conditioning in diffusion models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.14111, 2024. 7
[20] Chong Mou, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Jian Zhang, Zhon-
gang Qi, Ying Shan, and Xiaohu Qie. T2i-adapter: Learning
adapters to dig out more controllable ability for text-to-image
diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.08453, 2023. 2
[21] Alex Nichol, Prafulla Dhariwal, Aditya Ramesh, Pranav
Shyam, Pamela Mishkin, Bob McGrew, Ilya Sutskever, and
Mark Chen. Glide: Towards photorealistic image generation
and editing with text-guided diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.10741, 2021. 1, 2
[22] Bryan A Plummer, Liwei Wang, Chris M Cervantes,
Juan C Caicedo, Julia Hockenmaier, and Svetlana Lazeb-
nik. Flickr30k entities: Collecting region-to-phrase corre-
spondences for richer image-to-sentence models.
In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer
vision, pages 2641–2649, 2015. 7
[23] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning
15445
transferable visual models from natural language supervi-
sion. In International conference on machine learning, pages
8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. 1, 2
[24] Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu,
and Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-conditional image gener-
ation with clip latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125, 1
(2):3, 2022. 1, 2
[25] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer.
High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022. 1, 2, 7
[26] Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch,
Michael Rubinstein, and Kﬁr Aberman. Dreambooth: Fine
tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven
generation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 22500–
22510, 2023. 7
[27] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala
Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton, Kamyar Ghasemipour,
Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans,
et al. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep
language understanding.
Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:36479–36494, 2022. 1, 2
[28] Tim Salimans, Ian Goodfellow, Wojciech Zaremba, Vicki
Cheung, Alec Radford, and Xi Chen. Improved techniques
for training gans. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 29, 2016. 8
[29] Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard Vencu,
Cade Gordon,
Ross Wightman,
Mehdi Cherti,
Theo
Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis, Mitchell Worts-
man, et al. Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset for training
next generation image-text models. Advances in Neural In-
formation Processing Systems, 35:25278–25294, 2022. 1
[30] Jiaming
Song,
Chenlin
Meng,
and
Stefano
Ermon.
Denoising diffusion implicit models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.02502, 2020. 1, 2
[31] Kaihua Tang, Yulei Niu, Jianqiang Huang, Jiaxin Shi, and
Hanwang Zhang. Unbiased scene graph generation from bi-
ased training. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3716–
3725, 2020. 1, 2
[32] Zixiao Wang, Farzan Farnia, Zhenghao Lin, Yunheng Shen,
and Bei Yu. On the evaluation of generative models in dis-
tributed learning tasks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11714,
2023. 7
[33] Yang Wu, Pengxu Wei, and Liang Lin. Scene graph to im-
age synthesis via knowledge consensus. In Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 2856–
2865, 2023. 3, 7
[34] Yinwei Wu, Xingyi Yang, and Xinchao Wang.
Re-
lation rectiﬁcation in diffusion model.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.20249, 2024. 3
[35] Ling Yang, Zhilin Huang, Yang Song, Shenda Hong, Guohao
Li, Wentao Zhang, Bin Cui, Bernard Ghanem, and Ming-
Hsuan Yang. Diffusion-based scene graph to image gener-
ation with masked contrastive pre-training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.11138, 2022. 1
[36] Ling Yang, Zhilin Huang, Yang Song, Shenda Hong, Guohao
Li, Wentao Zhang, Bin Cui, Bernard Ghanem, and Ming-
Hsuan Yang. Diffusion-based scene graph to image gener-
ation with masked contrastive pre-training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.11138, 2022. 3, 5, 7
[37] Lvmin Zhang, Anyi Rao, and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding
conditional control to text-to-image diffusion models.
In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision, pages 3836–3847, 2023. 2, 3
[38] Guangcong Zheng, Xianpan Zhou, Xuewei Li, Zhongang Qi,
Ying Shan, and Xi Li. Layoutdiffusion: Controllable diffu-
sion model for layout-to-image generation. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition, pages 22490–22499, 2023. 3
15446
